About Western Governors University
Why are we called Western Governors University? Our name tells the story of our founding—a story that dates back to
1997, when a group of U.S. governors came up with an innovative answer to a question of growing concern: How can we
ensure more of our residents have greater access to a college education that fits their schedule? That meeting of the
Western Governors' Association marked the beginnings of a new national university.
From the beginning, we were designed to be different. The U.S. governors who founded WGU knew that the college
student of the 21st century would be very different from students in the past. For millions of working adults, the dream of
pursuing a college education could only become a reality once the boundaries of time and place could be removed.
Overcoming this challenge was at the heart of the WGU idea.
It was the mid-1990s, and a new technology was quickly emerging: the internet. As more and more Americans were able
to get online, the possibility of an ''anywhere, anytime'' education became a reality. And more than simply delivering
traditional, lecture-based learning via modem and monitor, our founders recognized that technology could be used to
fundamentally change the way college students learn. Harnessing the power of the internet and our innovative new
learning model—competency-based education—WGU revolutionized the way students learn, master concepts, and
progress to a degree.
As a nonprofit, online university founded by governors, WGU is different. But even beyond the unique story of our
founding and the foresight of our founders, WGU is different for a more fundamental reason: We do education differently.
WGU is mission-driven. Created to expand access to higher education through online, competency-based degree
programs, WGU’s mission has remained one of helping hardworking adults meet their educational goals and improve
their career opportunities. Our mission is to change lives for the better by creating pathways to opportunity.
Core Academic Commitments
WGU Core Academic Commitments support our mission to create pathways to opportunity by ensuring students receive
an education with value, integrity, relevancy, transparency, and personalization.
• Value: Advance the value of WGU's competency-based education model and credentials.
• Integrity: Base each credential on a relevant assessment of competence that is psychometrically sound and
assessed with integrity.
• Relevance: Align every competency to skills that can stack to high-value marketable skills, applicable knowledge,
and respected credentials.
• Transparency: Design skills, competencies, and credentials to be surfaced on a sharable learner-owned record.
• Personalization: Personalize pathways, pace, and support to ensure equitable access and attainment of
credentials.
WGU equips students with the skills employers want, backed by credentials employers trust.
Competency-Based Education
Colleges and universities traditionally require attendance in a classroom, conferring degrees based on completion of a
certain set of courses for a given number of credit hours. As an online institution that provides its students the
convenience of studying and completing coursework outside the classroom, WGU provides competency-based courses
to complete its degree and non-degree requirements. Competency-based programs allow students to demonstrate that
they have acquired the competencies (levels of knowledge, skill, or ability) required for a particular degree or certificate.
Students have often acquired many of the skills necessary for a degree through life or work experience. WGU’s system
enables students to utilize previously learned skills in proving their competencies.
A team of faculty have identified the required competencies for each program offered at WGU. Competencies summarize
the critical knowledge and skill levels essential for mastery of a particular field. WGU students demonstrate mastery of
competencies by completing assessments. An assessment may be a test, a project, an essay, or another practical
demonstration of a required skill. Therefore, assessments might look like:
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 7
• Assignments involving problem-solving in science or information technology.
• Computerized math examinations consisting of multiple-choice, matching, and other question types.
• Projects requiring the student to design a lesson plan about American history.
• Reflection essays about case studies.
• Research papers on particular topics within the student’s field.
Each assessment measures knowledge and skill in a given area through appropriate means. Assessments are
developed using a rigorous process that conforms to professional testing standards. This process yields high-quality
exams, reliable results, and supports valid conclusions about each student’s level of competence. Students can be
confident that all their assessments, whether computerized exams or performance tasks, align to and demonstrate
specific competencies in their individual degree programs.
Accreditation
Accreditation provides external, expert evaluation of WGU’s programs and policies, eases the transfer of credits to other
accredited institutions, and legitimizes degree credentials for employers and colleges.
NWCCU
Western Governors University is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Accreditation of
an institution of higher education by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities indicates that it meets or
exceeds criteria for the assessment of institutional quality evaluated through a peer review process. An accredited
college or university is one which has available the necessary resources to achieve its stated purposes through
appropriate educational programs, is substantially doing so, and gives reasonable evidence that it will continue to do so
in the foreseeable future. Institutional integrity is also addressed through accreditation. Accreditation by the Northwest
Commission on Colleges and Universities is not partial but applies to the institution as a whole. As such, it is not a
guarantee of every course or program offered, or the competence of individual graduates. Rather, it provides reasonable
assurance about the quality of opportunities available to students who attend the institution. Inquiries regarding an
institution’s accredited status by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities should be directed to the
administrative staff of the institution. Individuals may also contact: Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities;
8060 165th Avenue NE, Suite 100; Redmond, WA 98052; (425) 558-4224; www.nwccu.org.
CAEP
The Teachers College at Western Governors University has been granted advanced-level accreditation (effective fall
2021 to fall 2025) from CAEP, the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation; 1140 19th St NW, Suite 400;
Washington, DC 20036; (202) 223-0077.
AAQEP
The teacher licensure programs offered through the WGU Teachers College have been awarded full accreditation by the
Association for Advancing Quality in Educator Preparation (AAQEP) through June 30, 2026. Full accreditation
acknowledges that a program prepares effective educators who continue to grow as professionals and that the program
has demonstrated the commitment and capacity to continue to do so.
CCNE
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and post-graduate APRN certificate
program at Western Governors University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education. CCNE:
655 K Street NW, Suite 750; Washington, DC 20001; (202) 887-6791; http://www.ccneaccreditation.org.
CAHIIM
The Health Information Management accreditor of Western Governors University is the Commission on Accreditation for
Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). The College’s accreditation for the baccalaureate
degree in health information management has been reaffirmed through 2030. All inquiries about the program’s
accreditation status should be directed by mail to CAHIIM; 200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100; Chicago, IL 60601; by
phone at (312) 235-3255; or by email at info@cahiim.org.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 8
ACBSP
The baccalaureate and master’s degree programs offered by the School of Business at Western Governors University
are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP); 11520 W 199th St; Overland
Park, KS 66213; (913) 339-9356.
ABET
The B.S. in Computer Science program is accredited by the ABET Computing Accreditation Commission. ABET is the
global accreditor of college and university programs in applied and natural science, computing, engineering, and
engineering technology.
University Governance
Western Governors University is governed by a Board of Trustees consisting of educators, industry leaders, and state
governors. In addition, WGU continues to draw support from the governors of the member states that were instrumental
in the founding of WGU.
The following link provides information about the Board of Trustees, National Advisory Board, and other university
officials: https://www.wgu.edu/about/university-governance.html
Board of Trustees
Joseph B. Fuller, Chair Ruth Watkins
Professor of Management Practice President, Postsecondary Education
Harvard Business School Strada Education Foundation
April Chou Cole Clark
Managing Director Managing Director, Higher Education
Jasper Ridge Partners Deloitte
Dwana Franklin-Davis Jessie Woolley-Wilson
CEO Operating Partner
Reboot Representation Owl Ventures
Scott D. Pulsipher Dr. Harold Lee Martin, Sr.
President Chancellor Emeritus
Western Governors University North Carolina A&T State University
Lenny Mendonca Talia Milgrom-Elcott
Former Chief Economic and Business Advisor Founder and Executive Director
State of California Beyond100K and Starfish Institute
Eloy Oakley The Honorable Jared Polis
CEO Governor
College Futures Foundation State of Colorado
The Honorable Jim Geringer* David Simmons*
Director of Policy, ESRI Chairman and CEO
Former Governor of Wyoming Simmons Media Group
Dr. Samuel H. Smith*
President Emeritus
Washington State University
*Emeritus Trustees
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 9
University Leadership Council
Scott D. Pulsipher Bob Hunt
President and Chief Executive Officer Senior VP and General Counsel
Courtney Hills McBeth David Grow
Chief Academic Officer and Provost Chief Operating Officer
Nadeem Syed Sarah DeMark
Chief Financial Officer Vice Provost, Workforce Intelligence & Credential Integrity
David Morales Debbie Fowler
Senior VP, Technology and CIO Senior VP, Student Success
Gene Hayes Mallory Dwinal-Palisch
Senior VP, Regional Operations Executive Director, Craft Education
Stacey Ludwig-Johnson Mitsu Frazier
Senior VP, School of Education Senior VP, School of Business
Paul Bingham Bonnie Pattee
Senior VP, School of Technology Senior VP, People & Talent
David Perkinson Jason Levin
Senior VP, Program Development Executive Director, WGU LABS
Scott Neuner Chris Lee
Senior VP, Marketing President, WGU Academy
Academic Program Governance
Academic programs are developed and guided by WGU administrators working through several councils comprised of
academicians and industry experts in the various fields of knowledge. Each programmatic area (e.g., undergraduate
nursing, initial licensure for teaching) has a program council which is the faculty governing body for the degree or non-
degree program. Program councils, along with the program coordinator, are responsible for overseeing the development
of the curriculum (including competence descriptions, subdomains, and domains), overseeing all assessments, and
updating the curriculum.
In addition to program councils, an Assessment Council is responsible for working with program leaders, assessment
development vendors, and WGU assessment staff to ensure that WGU’s assessments are appropriate tests of the
competencies identified by the program leaders.
For a listing of members of each Council, see https://www.wgu.edu/about/university-governance.html.
Faculty Composition
WGU employs a disaggregated faculty model across the university. The aggregated roles and tasks performed by
traditional university professors (e.g., meeting with and advising students, course or curriculum design, instruction,
assessment) are distributed among faculty members. Consequently, the jobs of individual WGU faculty members focus
on single aspects of the academic experience, and students are supported by a team of faculty. Within WGU, there are
several faculty roles and associated tasks:
Assessment Faculty – An individual with expertise in assessment theory and practice who is responsible for the design,
development, and continuous improvement of assessments that support a competency-based curriculum in accordance
with industry best practices.
Curriculum Faculty – An individual with expertise in curriculum theory and practice who is responsible for the design,
development, and evaluation of competency-based curricula to provide relevant, robust learning experiences.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 10
Clinical Faculty – Professional experts who provide clinical instruction and evaluation to students in individual or group
settings to support students in meeting the practice requirements for licensure.
Instructors – Subject-matter experts who provide direct instruction to students in individual and/or group settings, and
who are responsible for providing course-specific student support that is effective, engaging, and appropriately
personalized.
Program Mentors – An individual with professional or domain expertise in program competencies who provides academic
guidance and personalized programmatic instruction and support to students.
Evaluators – Subject matter experts responsible for providing robust, personalized feedback on performance
assessments and evaluating student competency.
Faculty Leaders – Individuals with academic or professional expertise who manage teams of faculty and are accountable
for ensuring faculty provide timely, appropriately personalized student instruction or support that develops student
competency and supports student success. Faculty leaders are responsible for collaborating with Program Chairs to
make academic decisions that ensure program quality and strong student outcomes.
Honorary Faculty – An individual who is a recognized expert, nationally or internationally renowned in their field, or a
highly reputed scholar in their field and is thereby, uniquely qualified based on exceptional academic or professional
expertise. Honorary faculty may not necessarily meet stated minimum qualifications for other faculty positions.
Program Chairs – An individual with academic or professional expertise in the program domain who is accountable for
the integrity, excellence, national reputation, and continuous improvement of a portfolio of relevant educational programs
through leadership, innovation, fiscal efficiency, partnerships, and the advancement of the discipline. This administrative
faculty person is accountable for the quality, relevance, and performance of one or more academic programs. Chairs are
responsible for the financial, academic, and reputational health of the program(s) they lead and work closely with faculty
leaders to produce strong student outcomes.
Academic Calendar
The traditional academic calendar with limited enrollment periods, holidays, and other significant dates is not applicable.
In WGU’s continuous-enrollment model, new groups of degree-seeking students start on the first day of every month.
Students can access learning resources, schedule assessments, and complete performance assessments anytime.
WGU’s academic calendar divides a student’s academic year into two, six-month semesters called ''terms.'' The six
months that make up a term are based on when the student begins the program. For example, if a student begins the
program on February 1, the first term will last from February 1 through July 31. The second term would begin August 1.
Learning Resources
WGU students use a variety of learning resources, included in the cost of attendance, to acquire the skills and knowledge
needed to complete assessments. These learning resources come in a variety of forms (e.g., e-textbooks, web-based
tutorials, simulations, online labs).
Student Services
Students enrolling at WGU become part of our community of faculty and staff who are united under one goal: student
success. The Student Services office is available during extended hours to assist students with general questions and
administrative or accessibility issues. The Student Services team helps students resolve issues, listens to student issues
and concerns, and makes recommendations for improving policy and practice based on student feedback. The Student
Services team provides a formal means by which students can express their views, and those views in turn inform the
decisions we make.
The Student Services team assists students with unresolved concerns to find equitable resolutions. Prior to contacting
the Student Services office with a complaint, students should work with their Program Mentor. Mentors have the
expertise to guide students toward goals and direct them to resources to be successful. If, however, students have an
issue or problem that cannot be resolved by their Program Mentor, they are invited to contact the Student Services office.
Student Services can also assist students who wish to request to be assigned to a different Program Mentor.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 11
To contact the Student Services team, please call 877.435.7948 or email studentservices@wgu.edu. Representatives
are available Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and Saturday through Sunday from 10 AM to 7 PM MT.
Financial Services
WGU’s award-winning Financial Services team guides students through the process of paying for their educational
journeys. The Financial Aid Office can be reached by email at financialservices@wgu.edu or by calling 877.435.7948.
Hours of operation are weekdays 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed on weekends).
Service Desk
WGU’s Service Desk is available to help students resolve any technology problem by calling 877.435.7948 or emailing
servicedesk@wgu.edu. The Service Desk is open Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and from 10 AM to 7
PM MT on Saturday and Sunday.
Student Wellness
WGU offers each student WellConnect™, a free, voluntary, and confidential service which offers counseling and support
services to students. WellConnect™ provides support with a live clinician by phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Due
to WGU’s online presence and lack of a physical campus, the WellConnect student assistance program constitutes the
extent of healthcare services available to WGU students.
Commencement
WGU hosts virtual and live commencement weekends over the course of the year, with new cities and events each year.
WGU’s Alumni Relations team provides these opportunities for students, graduates, and families to come together to
celebrate their accomplishments and achievements. Visit www.wgu.edu/commencement for details.
Alumni Engagement
WGU’s Alumni Community of graduates is quickly growing. To help support these graduates, the Alumni Engagement
team is constantly seeking new ways to provide alumni with the tools and resources they need to succeed in the next
phase of their lives. Graduates have free access to these tools and resources on the alumni community website:
www.wgu.edu/alumni.
Connect with other graduates using WGU’s Night Owl Network, a state-of-the-art networking platform developed
specifically for fostering mentorship experiences, or the WGU Alumni LinkedIn Group. These are both closed groups, as
graduates and students must request to be added as a member.
WGU Night Owl Network: www.wgu.edu/alumni/stay-involved.html
WGU Alumni LinkedIn Group: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/51112
WGU is eager to provide leadership opportunities to alumni who are dedicated to representing the university by hosting a
networking event, working with a student or prospective student who could use advice from someone who’s ''been there,''
helping at commencement, facilitating corporate and school district partnerships along with WGU, etc. This dedicated
group of alumni is called WGU’s Ambassadors Club. Please contact the Alumni Engagement team if you are interested
in joining WGU’s Ambassadors Club.
Career and Professional Development
WGU provides career assistance and resources to students and graduates. Career and Professional Development (CPD)
Specialists are available to educate students and graduates on how to develop a career plan, implement job- search
strategies, and assist with the creation of marketing tools such as resumes, cover letters, and professional portfolio
profiles. Additionally, students and graduates have exclusive 24/7 self-service access to professional career resources,
such as resume development and practice interview software, self-assessments, and job banks. For more information,
visit the Career and Professional Development Website: www.wgu.edu/careerservices.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 12
Please Note: WGU does not guarantee employment upon degree completion or provide placement services.
Library
The WGU Library’s mission is to provide access and delivery of information resources independent of time and place.
The fully online digital library serves students, faculty, and staff around the clock, with library resources available to users
24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The library collection includes hundreds of thousands of ebooks, full text journals, and
licensed academic databases. WGU librarians work with vendors to provide seamless access to information resources
and to ensure patron expectations are met when using library resources. Our main search uses EBSCO Discovery
Service, allowing students to search across the majority of WGU subscriptions via a single platform. Students can also
search individual databases and ebook collections, and have access to a variety of subject-specific research guides.
For materials not immediately available in our collection, the WGU Library provides document delivery and hardcopy
book loans through the University of Michigan and Reprints Desk document delivery. Students and faculty can also
suggest titles they feel would be a valuable addition to our existing library collections. The WGU Alumni Library is
available to students upon graduation and includes alumni subscription packages and, dependent on licensing
restrictions, some content from our main library collection.
WGU librarians work with university faculty and administration to integrate library resources and information literacy
instruction directly into WGU coursework. Library staff collaborate with subject matter experts, learning resource
specialists, instructional designers, and other content selectors to ensure WGU collections align with program needs, and
to help create tailored information literacy instruction.
Students have multiple options for working with librarians for reference and research support. They can email, schedule a
phone appointment, or chat live with a librarian. The chat service is available 24/7, including holidays. The library offers
general and college-specific live webinars. Information on library use and policies may be accessed at
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Library-Services/ta-p/48.
Facilities
As an online university, WGU does not have a physical campus for students. Prospective students are informed of the
computer capacity requirements for successful access to all WGU systems and learning resources. WGU has various
administrative offices placed throughout the United States with the headquarters located in Utah.
Utah Headquarters: 4001 S 700 E, Suite 700; Salt Lake City, UT 84107 (with nursing lab)
Arizona: 432 N 44th St, Suite 400; Phoenix, AZ 85008
Indiana: 333 N Alabama St, Suite 250; Indianapolis, IN 46204
Missouri: 12200 N Ambassador Dr, Kansas City, MO 64163 (with nursing lab)
North Carolina: 1009 Slater Rd, Suite 310; Durham, NC 27703
Ohio: 325 John H. McConnell Blvd., Suite 375; Columbus, OH 43215
Tennessee: 501 Corporate Centre Dr, Suite 390; Franklin, TN 37067
Texas (Austin): 12515 Research Blvd, Building 8, Suite 250; Austin, TX 78759
Texas (Houston): 2051 S Greenhouse Rd, Suite 375; Houston, TX 77084 (with nursing lab)