Admissions
General Admission Requirements
WGU seeks to admit individuals who have the capacity and determination to complete a rigorous WGU certificate or
degree program. The admission process is designed to help students and the university reach an informed decision
about an applicant’s likelihood of success.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions.html
Admissions Criteria
For each student who applies, WGU will evaluate previous academic history to include high school or college coursework
and/or work history as required.
Students may also meet admissions requirements by completing WGU single or bundled course offerings, an alternative
pathway to regular matriculation into a WGU degree program.
To be considered for enrollment into a bachelor's degree program, applicants must possess a high school diploma or its
equivalent. Depending upon the program of interest, other specific admission requirements may also apply. See the
program-specific admission requirements below.
Applicants seeking admission to WGU must be no less than 14 years of age. Applicants seeking admission to WGU
programs leading to professional licensure must be at least 18 years of age at the time of clinical or field placement
requirements. Furthermore, applicants may not be incarcerated in a state or federal penal institution. Applicants must
also meet all other general and specific degree program admission requirements on the WGU website. For more
information on admissions policies, see https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Admission-
Requirements/ta-p/79.
For convenience, WGU starts new groups of students in most degree programs every month. Currently, WGU programs
do not require a specific score on either the SAT or ACT.
English Language Requirement (TOEFL): WGU students are expected to communicate clearly in writing and during
conversations with WGU faculty and staff. If English is not a student's native language, they must submit proof of a
qualifying score on the Internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT). WGU requires a qualifying
score of 80 or higher. Please see https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Admission/English-Language-Requirement-TOEFL/ta-p/40.
Steps and Deadlines for Enrollment
1. Apply for admission and pay the application fee. The application fee is $65 and can be paid online using a credit card
or by mailing a check or money order. The application fee must be paid before an application will be fully processed.
WGU does not profit from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admissions costs.
2. Send in official transcripts. Depending on the program, students may need to have a transfer evaluation or degree
verification. Students with prior college experience should send in their transcripts to help with a transfer evaluation and
admissions decision. Official copies of transcripts must arrive by the 5th of the month prior to the intended start date for
evaluation.
Official transcript copies can be submitted by mail or email (transcriptinfo@wgu.edu):
Western Governors University
ATTN: Transcripts Department
4001 South 700 East, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
3. Complete the financial aid application process. If intending to use federal financial aid to cover tuition expenses,
students will need to complete WGU’s financial aid application process and be certified as eligible to receive aid no later
than the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start date. An Enrollment Counselor can answer any questions.
4. Complete the Commit to Start documents. Once official transcripts have been received, an admission decision will be
made. At this point students will complete a self-guided, web-based experience or speak with a WGU Enrollment
Counselor to submit their Commit to Start documents. This process will finalize enrollment and officially set the program
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 14
start date. This process will likely take 20 to 30 minutes.
5. Make tuition payment arrangements. Tuition payment arrangements must be made by the 22nd of the month prior to
the intended start date. WGU strongly encourages students to make tuition arrangements or finish the financial aid
process sooner.
6. Complete orientation. Once the other steps are completed, students will be ready to begin WGU orientation. The
orientation course is designed to help students: understand WGU’s competency-based approach to education, identify
their learning style, gain skills in online research, review time management and study skills, gain practice using online
communication tools such as threaded discussions and chat, and connect with peers and mentors online.
School of Business Admission Requirements
Degrees from the School of Business emphasize mastery of the skills and knowledge that are essential for continued
advancement. Below are admissions requirements specific to School of Business programs that are in addition to WGU’s
general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/business_requirements
Special requirements for WGU’s Undergraduate Business Programs:
• Applicants to undergraduate School of Business programs must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent
AND demonstrate program readiness through one of the following options:
◦ Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a cumulative GPA of
2.0 or higher.
◦ Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associates degree (A.A or A.S. acceptable) from an accredited post-
secondary institution.
◦ Option 3: Submit high school transcripts for review with a GPA of 2.0 or higher.
Special Requirements for WGU’s MBA Programs and M.S. Programs:
• Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree from an accredited institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s MS Accounting Program:
• Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution.
• Demonstrate accounting experience through at least one of the following methods:
◦ A bachelor's degree in accounting.
◦ A Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license.
Leavitt School of Health Admission Requirements
All of the degrees offered by WGU’s Leavitt School of Health focus on mastery of the skills and knowledge that are
essential to success in this vital and high-demand field. Below are admissions requirements specific to Leavitt School of
Health programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html
Special requirements for WGU’s Non-Nursing Undergraduate Programs:
• Applicants must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent AND demonstrate program readiness through
one of the following:
◦ Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a cumulative GPA of
2.0 or higher.
◦ Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associates degree (A.A or A.S. acceptable) from an accredited post-
secondary institution.
◦ Option 3: Submit high school transcripts for review with a GPA of 2.5 or higher.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. in Nursing Program:
• Possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 15
approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). RN
licensure in your state of residence or employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences.
Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence.
• Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com).
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (RN to MSN
Option) Programs:
• Possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). RN
licensure in your state of residence or employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences.
Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence.
• Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com) and
provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (BSN to MSN
Option) Programs:
• Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (though you
are not required to be working as an RN at the time of enrollment). Some license holders may be granted a waiver
if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment. RN licensure in your state of residence or
employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences. Compact licenses must be endorsed by
your state of residence.
• Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com) and
provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special Requirements for WGU’s Master of Healthcare Administration Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university and experience in healthcare or healthcare-related
industry. OR
• Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university and obtain MHA department chair professional
coaching.
Special Requirements for WGU’s Master of Public Health Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree with a minimum 2.5 GPA from an accredited university.
Special requirements for WGU's Post-Master's Certificates in Nursing Programs:
• Possess an M.S. in Nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). You
must be licensed in the state in which you will complete your clinical experience.
Special requirements for WGU's MSN Family Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program. Students that hold an MSN will not be eligible to apply for the MSN-FNP pathway.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The FNP is
currently not available for students in California, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York, North
Dakota, and Washington.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a cover letter and professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 16
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become an FNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:**
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• Have earned a 3.0 cumulative grade point average* (on a 4.0 scale) in the following 5 courses OR hold a BSNU
degree from WGU. All courses must be awarded a C- or above to meet this requirement. At this time, WGU is not
accepting transfer credit for the MSN Famlily Nurse Practitioner program.
◦ Anatomy / Physiology I w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Anatomy / Physiology II w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Statistics (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Pharmacology (equivalent to 2 semester hours)
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
**Access the Letter of Recommendation request form through your enrollment portal.
Special requirements for WGU's MSN Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution. Students that hold an MSN
will not be eligible to apply for the BSN-PMHNP pathway.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The PMHNP
is currently not available for students in Arizona, California, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New
York, North Dakota, Washington, and Wisconsin.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become a PMHNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:**
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• Have earned a 3.0 cumulative grade point average* (on a 4.0 scale) in the following 5 courses OR hold a BSNU
degree from WGU. All courses must be awarded a C- or above to meet this requirement. At this time, WGU is not
accepting transfer credit for the MSN Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program.
◦ Anatomy / Physiology I w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Anatomy / Physiology II w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Statistics (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Pharmacology (equivalent to 2 semester hours)
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
**Access the Letter of Recommendation request form through your enrollment portal.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 17
Special requirements for WGU's Post-Master's Certificate Family Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess an M.S. in Nursing or Terminal Nursing Degree (e.g., DNP, PhD) from an accredited institution or state
board of nursing approved program.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The FNP
Post-Master's Certificate is currently not available for students in Arizona, California, District of Columbia,
Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York, North Dakota, and Washington.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become an FNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
Special requirements for WGU's Post-Master's Certificate Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess an M.S. in Nursing or Terminal Nursing Degree (e.g., DNP, PhD) from an accredited institution or state
board of nursing approved program.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The PMHNP
is currently not available for students in Arizona, California, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New
York, North Dakota, and Washington.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become a PMHNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Program:
Admission Requirements Include:
• Nursing Entrance Exams
• Background Check
• Nursing Application Essay
• Active Nursing Prelicensure File
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 18
For more information on these requirements, please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-
requirements.html and refer to the sections below on this page.
Admission Requirements for the B.S. Nursing Prelicensure Program:
The Leavitt School of Health at Western Governors University is committed to student success and partners with the
WGU Office of Admissions to determine academic eligibility for the Prelicensure Nursing program. Applicants who submit
all admission requirements will be reviewed through a weighted evaluation system that considers several factors. The
Office of Admissions reviews all applicants based on their academic experience and nursing entrance exam scores.
• Admission is competitive and not guaranteed; additional factors important to student success in the nursing
program may also be considered.
• Admission to and enrollment in the Prelicensure Nursing program does not guarantee acceptance into the clinical
nursing portion of the program.
• Only residents of the following states are eligible to apply to this program - Arkansas, Florida, Idaho, Indiana,
Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Any
applications from residents outside of these states will not be accepted.
To be considered for enrollment into the Prelicensure Nursing Program, applicants must possess a high school diploma
or its equivalent, be at least 16 years of age, and complete the following admission requirements:
• Complete the HESI A2 or ATI TEAS nursing exam within the last five years.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank.
• Submit a Prelicensure Nursing Application Essay.
• Activate their Prelicensure Nursing File which includes a declaration of: the date and location an applicant is
applying to, completed certifications, completed licenses, and military service and training.
Requirements that must be satisfied in pre-nursing terms to be eligible to progress to the clinical nursing program:
There are costs outside of tuition and fees involved with creating your compliance account early in your pre-nursing terms
and purchasing uniforms and supplies by the end of your last pre-nursing term. These costs will vary based on each item
along with geographic location/provider.
Students who are successful in the pre-nursing terms will be eligible for progression into the nursing portion of the
program. The following must be completed to be considered for progression into the nursing portion of the program:
• Proof of health insurance.*
• Proof of successfully passing of a criminal background check (also may require a state background check to be
completed per state regulatory requirements for nursing programs).
• Proof of successfully passing a urine drug test.
• Proof of a current immunization record and current negative TB test. To see which immunizations are required,
please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
• Proof of meeting the specific physical requirements in accordance with the core performance standards of the
nursing profession. For examples, please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
• Participation in the Nursing Progression Committee process.
* Student malpractice insurance will be provided by WGU at no cost.
School of Technology Admission Requirements
Degree programs from WGU's School of Technology focus on providing the skills, knowledge, certifications, and
credentials students need to be a successful IT pro. Below are admissions requirements specific to School of Technology
programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/it_requirements
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 19
Special Requirements for WGU’s B.S. Computer Science Program:
Students must be able to use key Calculus principles, rules, and applications while in the B.S. Computer Science
program. Students must meet the following admission requirements for admittance to this program:
• Possess a high school diploma or its equivalent.
• Demonstrate readiness through completion of one of the following:
◦ Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a minimum of 2.75
GPA or higher, AND successful and verifiable completion of a pre-calculus course from a WGU approved
third-party provider with a grade ''C'' or better.*
◦ Option 2: A high school GPA of 3.0, or higher, AND a B grade, or better, in a high school honors, IB, or AP
level advanced mathematics course.
*If no previous Pre-Calculus course has been completed by the time of application, students can complete this course
prior to matriculation.
Special Requirements for WGU’s IT bachelor's degree programs:
To be considered for enrollment into a School of Technology bachelor's degree program, students must possess a high
school diploma or its equivalent and demonstrate program readiness through one of the following:
• Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a minimum of 2.75 GPA or
higher.
• Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associate degree (A.A, A.S. or A.A.S. acceptable) from an accredited post-
secondary institution.
• Option 3: Submit official record of completion of a transferable IT certification, some of which may provide transfer
credit into various programs.
• Option 4: Submit high school transcripts with a minimum GPA of 3.0.
• Option 5: Submit transcripts documenting completion of previous IT coursework (must be 300 level or higher).
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field, Business degree (Quantitative Analysis, Accounting, Economics,
Finance, or degree with similar quantitative focus). OR
• Possess any bachelor’s degree PLUS one of the following:
◦ Two years of related work experience
◦ Relevant and current IT certification
◦ Related IT coursework
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. IT Management Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Data Analytics Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field. OR
• Possess any bachelor’s degree PLUS one of the following:
◦ Completed college-level coursework in statistics and computer programming with a grade of B- or better.
◦ At least two years of work experience in a data analytics, data science, data engineering, or database
administration role.
◦ A current and active third-party certification in data analytics, data science, or data engineering from the list
available at http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/it_requirements.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Software Engineering Program:
To be considered for enrollment into this program, students must possess any bachelor’s degree from an accredited
institution plus ONE of the following:
• Option 1: Possess a bachelor’s degree in a programming-related field such as Software Engineering, Software
Development, Computer Science, Data Analytics, or Data Science from an accredited institution.
• Option 2: Have completed a college-level course in Object Oriented Programming with a grade of B- or better.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 20
Alternatively, students may complete the Introduction to Python Programming course. If students complete the
course within a given period and matriculate, the $99 investment will go toward their tuition with WGU.
• Option 3: Have at least two years of industry experience as a programmer.
• Option 4: Have a current and active certification from one of the following: PCAP™–Certified Associate Python
Programmer, PCAD™–Certified Associate Data Analyst with Python, or IBM Data Science Professional
Certificate.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Computer Science Program:
To be considered for enrollment into this program, students must possess any bachelor’s degree from an accredited
institution plus ONE of the following:
• Option 1: Students with a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) in Computer Science may enroll directly into one of the
three enrollable graduate code programs.
• Option 2: Students with a bachelor's degree in a field other than Computer Science must complete the
Foundations of Computer Science course prior to enrolling in the program.
Students from other WST undergraduate programs (excluding BSCS) will be required to complete the Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS) before pursuing this program to ensure they have the necessary program knowledge for
maximum success in the graduate courses.
School of Education Admission Requirements
The WGU School of Education is a recognized national leader in online teacher education. Below are admissions
requirements specific to School of Education programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/teaching-requirements.html
Special Requirements for Undergraduate Programs Leading to Initial Licensure:
Applicants to undergraduate initial licensure programs must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent AND
demonstrate program readiness through one of the following options:
• Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework for review of GPA.
• Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associate degree (A.A or A.S. acceptable) from an accredited institution.
• Option 3: Submit high school transcripts for review of GPA.
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Endorsement:
If enrolled in a program that also includes a special endorsement (for example, the M.A. in Mathematics Education, with
an endorsement to teach secondary mathematics) and the student plans to eventually apply for the endorsement, the
following are required:
• A copy of a valid teaching license (an Enrollment Counselor will instruct students when and how to submit their
teaching license prior to or during their program).
• Official transcripts demonstrating that a bachelor’s degree was earned from a recognized, accredited university.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership Program:
Prior to entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership degree program, students will be required to complete a candidate
interview and provide the following:
• Evidence of a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution.
• Proof of a state issued, valid, and unexpired standard professional license.
• A resume showing three years of licensed professional experience in a P-12 setting (excluding probationary,
temporary, and substitute teaching experience).
• A confidential recommendation.
• Recent annual summative performance evaluation.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 21
Additional Requirements for Entry into M.A. in Teaching Programs:
To be considered eligible for enrollment into a M.A. in Teaching English Education, Mathematics Education, Science
Education, or Social Studies Education degree programs, students must provide official transcripts that demonstrate they
have earned a bachelor’s degree from a recognized, institutionally accredited (also known as regionally accredited)
university AND demonstrate readiness through one of the following:
• Option 1: Content-related undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.5 (or higher, depending upon
your state).
• Option 2: Undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.5 (or higher, depending upon your state) and
24-30 hours of content specific coursework, equivalent to a major.
• Option 3: Undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.0 (or higher, depending upon your state), a
passing score on the WGU program required basic skills test (e.g., Praxis CORE) and demonstrate content
competency via one of the following pathways 1) 24-30 hours of content specific coursework, equivalent to a major
OR 2) an undergraduate or graduate degree in a content-related area to which area of program you are seeking
admission.
The M.A. in Teaching, Elementary Education and M.A. in Teaching, Special Education degree programs requires a 2.5
minimum GPA (or higher, depending upon your state), or the competency-based equivalent, in your bachelor's program.
Applicants with a GPA lower than a 2.5 but a 2.0 or above may seek admission by submitting passing scores from the
WGU program required basic skills test (e.g. Praxis CORE). An Enrollment Counselor can help students best determine
whether they have the sufficient background for entry into their program of choice.