
State Regulatory Information
Western Governors University monitors developments in state rules and regulations to maintain pathways to
opportunities where students reside. If changes to the pathways occur while a student is enrolled, WGU works with the
state and notifies the affected students to potential alternative pathways.
Professional Licensure
WGU regularly verifies licensure requirements in each state for programs that lead to a professional license. For a
current listing of licensure information, please see the links below.
Teacher Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-teaching-degrees/state-licensure.html
Nursing Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-nursing-health-degrees/state-licensure.html
Business Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-business-degrees/state-licensure.html
NC-SARA
Western Governors University is a participating institution of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity
Agreements (''NC-SARA'' or ''SARA''), allowing WGU to operate in a number of states/territories based on its approval in
the State of Utah. For additional information on NC-SARA, visit http://nc-sara.org. After exhausting WGU’s Student
Complaint Process, the Utah System of Higher Education (''USHE'') handles complaints from individuals in states/
territories where the university operates (see https://ushe.edu/office-of-commissioner/state-authorization-ut-sara/);
however, USHE will only consider complaints that were previously unresolved by WGU and may refer a complaint to an
agency in another state for investigation.
Complaint Process: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Consumer-Complaint-Process/ta-p/160
If a state or territory is not included below, WGU educates students in those jurisdictions through participation in SARA.
American Samoa
American Samoa does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval for WGU to offer distance education
programs to students located in American Samoa is not required.
California
The California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education does not regulate out-of-state private nonprofit institutions.
Therefore, approval for WGU to offer distance education programs to students located in California is not required.
Guam
The Guam Council on Post-Secondary Institution Certification does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval
for WGU to offer distance education programs to students located in Guam is not required.
Indiana
Western Governors University, known in Indiana as ''Western Governors University Indiana'' or ''WGU Indiana'' was
chartered by Executive Order 10-04 of Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., Governor of the State of Indiana, on June 11, 2010.
Missouri
Western Governors University, known in Missouri as ''Western Governors University Missouri'' or ''WGU Missouri'' was
established by Executive Order 13-04 of Jay Nixon, Governor of the State of Missouri, on February 15, 2013.
Western Governors University is approved to operate online degree programs by the Missouri Department of Higher
Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Department at 301 W. High
Street, P.O. Box 1469; Jefferson City, MO 65102-1469; info@dhewd.mo.gov.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 23
Nebraska
Western Governors University is approved to operate in Nebraska by Nebraska’s Coordinating Commission for
Postsecondary Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the
Commission at P.O. Box 95005; Lincoln, NE 68509-5005; (402) 471-2847.
Nevada
Western Governors University, known in Nevada as ''Western Governors University Nevada'' or ''WGU Nevada'' was
established by an Executive Proclamation of Brian Sandoval, Governor of the State of Nevada, on June 16, 2015.
North Carolina
Western Governors University, known in North Carolina as ''Western Governors University North Carolina'' or ''WGU
North Carolina'' was established on October 5, 2017 through approval by The University of North Carolina System.
The UNC System Office
223 S. West Street, Suite 1800
Raleigh, NC 27603
Website: https://www.northcarolina.edu/contact
Student complaints with the state may be submitted online at https://studentcomplaints.northcarolina.edu/form or for
more information use the following contact information:
North Carolina Post-Secondary Education Complaints
223 S. West Street, Suite 1800
Raleigh, NC 27603
919.962.4550
Website: https://www.northcarolina.edu/post-secondary-education-complaints
The State Board of Education has also established a process for student complaints concerning an Education
Preparation Program (EPP). For more information, refer to the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction (NCDPI)
website - https://www.dpi.nc.gov/documents/epp/epp-complaint-process/download?attachment