
A Tuition Guarantee Bond for North Carolina is held at the office of the president in Salt Lake City, UT and is reviewable
upon request to those wishing to see it during business hours.
Northern Mariana Islands
The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval for WGU
to offer distance education programs to students located in the Northern Mariana Islands is not required.
Ohio
Western Governors University, known in Ohio as ''Western Governors University Ohio'' or ''WGU Ohio'' was established
on June 21, 2018 through approval by the Ohio Department of Higher Education. Additonal information regarding this
institution may be obtained by contacting the Department at 25 South Front Street; Columbus, OH 43215; (614) 466-
6000; https://highered.ohio.gov/.
Tennessee
Western Governors University, known in Tennessee as ''Western Governors University Tennessee'' or ''WGU
Tennessee'' was established through a Memorandum of Understanding between Bill Haslam, Governor of the State of
Tennessee, and Robert W. Mendenhall, President of Western Governors University, on July 9, 2013.
Texas
Western Governors University, known in Texas as ''Western Governors University Texas'' or ''WGU Texas'' was
established by Executive Order RP 75 of Rick Perry, Governor of the State of Texas, on August 3, 2011.
Western Governors University is authorized to conduct courses and grant degrees by the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Board at 1200 E
Anderson Lane; Austin, TX 78752; (512) 427-6101.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 24
Utah
Western Governors University has met the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §13-34a-203 to be a registered
postsecondary school, legally authorized by the State of Utah.
Washington
Western Governors University, known in Washington as ''Western Governors University Washington'' or ''WGU
Washington'' was established by the passing of Substitute House Bill 1822, effective on July 22, 2011, with the approval
of Christine Gregoire, Governor of the State of Washington.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 25
Tuition and Financial Aid
Tuition and Fees for Degree Programs (Effective September 1, 2024)
WGU charges tuition at a flat rate every term. The more courses a student completes each term, the more affordable
their degree program becomes. For more information, visit https://www.wgu.edu/financial-aid-tuition.html. All prices below
are in U.S. Dollars.
Applicable to All Programs
Resource Fee: $200 Per Term
Application Fee: $65 (One Time)
Note: WGU does not ''profit'' from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admission
costs. WGU charges a $200 Resource Fee each term. This fee helps cover the use of the online library, e-textbooks, and
many other learning resources. With few exceptions, required textbooks are available as e-textbooks, so students won’t
have to purchase hard copy textbooks.
Transcript order and other potential fees - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Tuition-and-Fees-Amount/ta-p/57
Costs for standalone courses and certificates are listed on page 49 of the catalog.
School of Business
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,755 Per Term
Graduate Program Tuition: $4,755 Per Term
Leavitt School of Health
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (RN to BSN) Tuition: $5,325 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (Prelicensure) Tuition: $8,755 Per Term + Other Fees*
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Health and Human Services Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Health Science Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Psychology Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Public Health Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Master of Science, Nursing (RN to MSN) Tuition: $5,325 Per Term (Undergraduate), $5,035 Per Term (Graduate)
Master of Science, Nursing (BSN to MSN) Tuition: $5,035 Per Term
Master of Science or Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner Tuition: $6,850 Per Term
Master of Science or Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner Tuition: $6,955 Per Term
Master of Healthcare Administration Tuition: $4,955 Per Term
Master of Public Health Tuition: $4,995 Per Term
All Other Post-Master's Certificates Tuition: $5,035 Per Term
*B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Fees:
• Uniforms: approx. $150 (plus shipping, handling, and applicable taxes)
• Lab kit fees: approx. $250
• Drug Screen, Background Check, and Immunization Tracking System: $94 - includes one alias search. Additional
information is available on the degree webpage.
• Compliance fees will vary depending on the compliance items a student needs for placement. Additional
information is available on the degree webpage, including other potential fees.
School of Technology
Bachelor of Science, Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Tuition: $4,365 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Cloud Computing Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Computer Science Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Software Engineering Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 26
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology Tuition: $3,725 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Data Analytics Tuition: $3,835 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Network Engineering and Security Tuition: $3,835 Per Term
Master of Science, Computer Science Tuition: $3,985 Per Term
Master of Science, Software Engineering Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Master of Science, Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Tuition: $4,655 Per Term
Master of Science, Data Analytics Tuition: $4,520 Per Term
Master of Science, IT Management Tuition: $4,040 Per Term
Accelerated Information Technology Bachelor's and Master's Tuition: $3,835 Per Term (Undergraduate), $4,040 Per
Term (Graduate)
School of Education
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,825 Per Term
Graduate Program Tuition: $4,125 Per Term
Tuition Payment and Financial Policies
The Financial Aid Office can be reached by email at financialservices@wgu.edu or by calling 877.435.7948. Hours of
operation are weekdays 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed on weekends). Please see the student handbook for an overview of
financial aid: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Financial-Aid-Overview/ta-p/195.
WGU Financial Policy
Western Governors University is dedicated to providing the best possible education and service to our students. A
complete understanding of financial responsibilities is an essential element of a student’s education. The WGU Financial
Services office is committed to assisting all student account needs. However, students have the primary responsibility to
make sure their tuition is paid on time each term.
Payment is Required at the Beginning of Each Term
Tuition for the full term is due by the 1st day of each term. Financial clearance is due for new students on or before the
22nd of the month proceeding the first day of the first term. Acceptance of term registration confirms agreement to pay
tuition in full. For a small enrollment fee, WGU offers a payment plan for those who cannot pay in full by the required
date. To enroll in a payment plan, select the ''View Payment Plans'' link in the Financial Services section on the Student
Support tab of the student portal. Payment or payment plan participation is required by the first day of each new term.
Students in an active bankruptcy, prior collection agency placement for a balance due to WGU, or who have a prior
payment plan default, are not eligible for a WGU payment plan.
Payment Deadlines
Payments received or payment arrangements must be completed on the student portal by:
• New student with first term tuition - On the 22nd day of month prior to term start.
• Renewal term tuition - First day of the term.
Financial Aid
Students have the responsibility to apply for and submit all forms required by the Financial Aid office and be aware of
deadlines for submission. Application for financial aid is not a guarantee of funding. In the event students are approved
for financial aid and are under-funded or students become ineligible for financial aid funds they are responsible for the
financial obligation on their account. Regardless of the status of their financial aid file, it is the responsibility of students to
ensure that tuition and fees are paid by the appropriate deadline.
In accordance with federal guidelines, WGU applies funds to student accounts in the following order, as available:
• Federal Pell grant
• Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG)
• State grants
• Scholarships/Tuition Assistance
• Direct subsidized loans
• Teach grant
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 27
• Americorps
• Direct unsubsidized loans
• PLUS loans
• Private loans
Payment Methods
WGU accepts cash, checks, and web checks/EFT at no additional cost to students. Credit/Debit cards (Visa, MasterCard,
Discover, and American Express) are accepted, but a 2.85% card processing fee applies. WGU does not accept post-
dated checks. WGU will not hold any check for deposit past the date of the receipt of the check. WGU is not responsible
for bank fees associated with the deposit of said check. More information about paying by check is available at
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Tuition-Payment-and-Financial-Policies/ta-p/145.
To protect students' financial records, WGU does not accept payments over the phone, under any circumstance.
Refunds
Once eligibility for a refund is calculated, the Financial Services office processes tuition charges and refunds within 30
days, as applicable. Funds reimbursed to students are reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., payments
received via credit card are refunded (less non-refundable convenience fee) to the card used for payment, and payments
received via check are refunded via check or direct deposit. To set up your preferred check refund method, please
access the ‘Select Refund Method’ link available on the ‘My Account’ page in the Student portal. In the case of financial
aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the appropriate grant or loan program based on the
Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this calculation, students may owe WGU a portion of
tuition and fees not covered.
All funding sources (i.e., internal and external scholarships, waivers, discounts and grants) will be reviewed and may be
subject to a proration calculation. In the case of third-party funds (i.e., employer contributions, government funding,
military payments, etc.), if the payment exceeds tuition and fees, WGU will follow any instructions provided by the original
payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. If no instructions are provided, the refund will be processed to the
original payer. Students are responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed, after refunds to all payers.
Note: For Missouri residents, the application fee is refundable if the applicant terminates the admission process by
notifying the Enrollment or Admissions Department within three business days of paying the application fee. The
resource fee is billed at the beginning of each term and is refundable if the student terminates enrollment within three
business days of the start of the term. After three business days, these fees are non-refundable.
Billing and Account Statements
A WGU student account billing notice is generated each time a charge or a charge adjustment is applied to a student
account. Billing notices are delivered to myWGU student email accounts. Students may download account statements
via the student portal by visiting the Student Support tab in the student portal. Select Financial Services on the left and
click ''My Account.'' Scroll to the bottom of the My Account screen to download a term account statement, cumulative
account statement, or course cost breakdown.
Past Due Accounts
Tuition for the full term is due by the first day of each term. Any account not paid in full, awarded financial aid funding or
other third-party guarantor, or on an authorized Payment Plan is past due on the second day of the term. Past due
accounts may be placed on financial hold for non-payment. Failure to complete payment or payment arrangements with
WGU or make payment in full may result in administrative withdrawal.
Automatic Enrollment Confirmation/Not Attending Cancellation for Renewal Term Students
Students' tuition for renewal terms is automatically charged on the first day of the term. Thus, if a student will not be
attending a subsequent term, it is necessary for the student to notify their Program Mentor by telephone or email prior to
enrollment for the term. Once the student has completed term enrollment with the Program Mentor, the student will be
liable for charges incurred.
Final Term Students
Students in their final term may be eligible for part time enrollment if they do not have enough required units remaining to
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 28
be full-time. All Students will have their tuition adjusted by the number of competency units enrolled in a term, not by time
attended within a term. For an estimate of prorated tuition, please refer to the student handbook article -
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Tuition-Information-for-Part-Time-Enrollment/ta-p/107
Returned Checks
Payment of tuition or fees with a check that is subsequently returned as unpaid from the bank results in a returned check
fee. A student may not satisfy a returned check obligation with a personal check. After two returned checks, WGU will no
longer accept a personal check for payment on a student's account. All future payments must be made via credit card
(which will incur a 2.85% convenience fee) or money order. Failure to clear a returned check taken in payment for tuition
or fees results in administrative withdrawal from WGU. Once this action is taken, students cannot be reinstated for the
term, but will owe prorated portion of the charges for tuition in addition to other collection costs and charges necessary
for the collection of the returned check. A student may apply for re-enrollment for the following term when all balances
are resolved.
Delinquent Accounts
Failure to meet financial obligations of any kind to the university may result in a financial hold and suspension of future
services including enrollment for subsequent terms. In addition, delinquent accounts may be referred to a collection
agency. Students are responsible for additional late payment charges, interest, attorney's fees, other reasonable costs,
and charges necessary for the collection of any amount not paid when due.
Student Financial Aid Requirements
http://www.wgu.edu/tuition_financial_aid/financial_aid
WGU is approved by the U.S. Department of Education to offer federal student aid in most of our programs. Because of
our more affordable tuition, WGU students are able to graduate without large amounts of student debt to repay. If
students qualify for and accept federal student aid, it will cover most, if not all, direct education expenses. Financial aid
can be used for tuition and fees (including electronic learning materials), textbooks, technology, room and board. A
complete list of allowable expenses is listed in the Cost of Attendance Policy.
To receive consideration for any federal student aid program, students must first file the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA) at https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa. When students fill out the FAFSA, they are applying
for aid for a specific year; therefore, they will need to renew the FAFSA application each award year.
Most WGU students qualify for at least one type of federal aid. To be eligible for federal student aid (grants, loans, and
work-study funds), students must meet the following requirements established by the U.S. Department of Education:
• demonstrate financial need (for most programs);
• be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen;
• have a valid Social Security number (with the exception of students from the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau);
• be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a regular student in an eligible program;
• be enrolled at least half-time to be eligible for Direct Loan Program funds;
• maintain satisfactory academic progress;
• sign the certification statement on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) form stating that you
are not in default on a federal student loan, you do not owe money on a federal student grant, and you will use
federal student aid only for educational purposes; and
• show you’re qualified to obtain a college education by
◦ having a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent such as a General Educational Development
(GED) certificate;
◦ completing a high school education in a homeschool setting approved under state law (or—if state law
does not require a homeschooled student to obtain a completion credential—completing a high school
education in a homeschool setting that qualifies as an exemption from compulsory attendance
requirements under state law); or
◦ enrolling in an eligible career pathway program and meeting one of the ''ability-to-benefit'' alternatives
described at https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/eligibility/requirements#ability-to-benefit.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 29
Satisfactory Academic Progress
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Federal regulations require that all students who receive federal student aid funds maintain satisfactory academic
progress (SAP). It is a measure of student progress toward the completion of a degree and is assessed by qualitative
(grade-based) and quantitative (time-based) measures. WGU evaluates these measures at the end of each completed
payment period or term in the student's academic program and at the time of withdrawal from the university.
The university defines demonstrating a competency (a grade of ''pass'') as a grade equivalent to a ''B'' or better (3.0 on a
4-point scale). WGU does not calculate a GPA. Students receive a mark of ''pass'' or ''not passed'' on their permanent
academic record for any courses for which they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment. A
course with a grade of ''not passed'' or ''withdrawn'' is considered as a failed course and is counted against SAP.
A quantitative measure is the completion of 66.67% of all competency units attempted. This percentage is determined by
dividing the number of competency units completed by the total number of units for which a student enrolled cumulatively
over the student's academic career at WGU. Completing at least 66.67% of all competencies means the student is on
track to complete the program within the required 150% of the published length of the program measured in competency
units.
Maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress
To maintain good standing for SAP, students must complete at least one course in each term and achieve an overall
minimum cumulative pass rate of 66.67% for all competency units attempted and completed.
The Higher Education Act requires a specific qualitative review at the end of the student's second academic year.
Students enrolled in a program of more than two academic years must have at least a ''C'' or its equivalent, or have an
academic standing consistent with WGU’s graduation requirements. In addition, a student is ineligible when it becomes
mathematically impossible for the student to complete their program within 150% of the length of the program.
Transfer Credits from Other Institutions
Students who are granted transfer credits to WGU that count toward the student's current grade level are included in both
attempted and completed when measuring SAP.
First-Term Critical Actions
New students at WGU who do not complete one of the defined ''first-term critical actions'' within 45 days from the first
term start date will be administratively withdrawn. WGU excludes this term from the SAP calculation. For more
information on first-term critical actions, see the student handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Technical-
Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989.
Program and Catalog Change
A change in the program of study will not affect a student's SAP standing. If the new program is in the same credential
level as the old program and there are no changes to the number of transfer credits applied to the new program of study,
SAP standing remains the same. If WGU awards additional or removes transfer credits to align with the new program of
study, the student’s SAP status may be affected. If the credential level of the new program is different from the old
program (e.g., bachelor’s degree program into master’s degree program or vice versa), the student will begin as a first
term student with a new SAP history. A change in program of study will not affect a student's SAP standing provided the
new program is in the same grade level as the old program and transfer credit is not added or removed.
For catalog changes, the SAP standing remains the same if the latest version does not increase the number of required
CUs to complete the program. Changes to the number of CUs required to complete the program may affect the SAP
standing.
Students requesting readmission into WGU will return with the SAP status calculated at the time of withdrawal unless the
program change or catalog change policy applies.
For more information on program changes, catalog changes, grade changes, multiple programs, and stacked degree and
credential programs, please refer to the student handbook using the SAP link above.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 30
Financial Aid Warning
Students are required to complete at least one course and achieve a cumulative completion rate of at least 66.67% at the
end of each term.
Students who fail to maintain SAP are placed on warning and may be terminated from federal financial aid eligibility
according to the following criteria:
• Students who finish their term with a cumulative SAP of less than 66.67% and do not complete at least one course
are terminated from federal financial aid.
• Students who finish their term with a cumulative SAP of at least 66.67% (due to earned CUs in the prior term
including transfer credits from another school), but do not complete at least one course are terminated from
federal financial aid.
• Students who finish their term with a cumulative SAP of less than 66.67% but complete at least one course are
placed on warning for the subsequent term and remain eligible for federal student aid.
• Students in a warning term who end the warning term with a cumulative completion rate below 66.67% SAP are
terminated from federal financial aid eligibility.
• Students in a warning term who complete at least one course and achieve a cumulative completion rate of at least
66.67% are returned to good academic standing.
Students who are terminated from financial aid eligibility may continue their studies at WGU but are required to self-pay
and make payment arrangements through the Student Accounts office.
In the case of extenuating circumstances, students may appeal their termination status to the Financial Aid Appeal
Committee. Please refer to the student handbook (see SAP link above) for instructions regarding financial aid termination
and appeal, financial aid probation, and financial aid reinstatement.
Student Notification
The university notifies students of the results of any SAP evaluation affecting the eligibility for FSA funds for the entire
payment period.
Scholarship and Grant Recipients
Most scholarships and grants do not allow for a warning term. Failure to meet SAP in any given term can result in
termination of scholarship or grant funds. Please refer to the scholarship or grant materials or contact the scholarship
department at scholarships@wgu.edu for additional information.
Scholarships
Scholarship awards issued by Western Governors University are financial awards provided to students to help them meet
a portion of their tuition costs. Awards are limited to the amount of each scholarship, and depending on the amount, the
scholarship may or may not cover all tuition and fees. Students are responsible for paying any tuition charges not
covered by their scholarship. Unused scholarship monies will not be refunded to students.
Scholarship terms - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Scholarship-Terms-and-Conditions/ta-p/67
Scholarship list - https://www.wgu.edu/financial-aid-tuition/scholarships.html
Refund and Cancellation Policy
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Institutional-Withdrawal-Refund-Policy/ta-p/87
Students who withdraw within three business days from their first term start date are eligible for a full refund including all
tuition and fees paid, minus the student’s application fee.
The following students are eligible for a refund of a prorated portion of tuition:
• Students who have an effective withdrawal date after three business days from their first term start date, but
before the completion of 60% of a term.
• Students who are in any term other than their first term and have an effective withdrawal date before completion of
60% of a term.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 31
Students with a withdrawal date occurring after 60% of the term is completed are not eligible for a refund. The admission
application fee, resource fee, and program specific fees are non-refundable for effective withdrawal occurring after the
first three business days of a student’s first term start date.
Determining Withdrawal Dates
Withdrawal dates are determined in two ways, either through official withdrawal or through administrative withdrawal.
Official withdrawal is a student’s voluntary withdrawal due to inability to continue their studies at WGU regardless of the
cause of such inability. Administrative withdrawal is the involuntary dismissal from WGU due to failure to meet academic
or other requirements.
Official withdrawal: The withdrawal date is the date a student notifies the university of their final decision for withdrawal.
Administrative withdrawal: The withdrawal date is the last date of the student’s academic activity within an enrolled term.
Calculating the Refund
WGU will calculate the refund for students who withdraw pursuant to the policies listed above in this section using the
following formula:
• The number of calendar days from the official term start date to the withdrawal date, divided by the total number of
calendar days in the term.
• WGU calculates the amount of the tuition refund by multiplying tuition billed for the term (less any tuition
discounts) by the percentage of the term the student was not enrolled, and subtracting the amount of tuition
already paid. For example, a student who withdraws halfway (50%) through a term and has paid $2000 of a $3000
total tuition charge would be entitled to a refund of $500 (($3000 * 50%) - $2000 = $500)).
• The resource fee and other program specific fees are non-refundable.
Refunds
Once WGU calculates tuition charges and determines eligibility for a refund, the Bursar office processes refunds within
30 days as applicable. In the case of financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the
appropriate grant or loan program based on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation. As a result of this
calculation, students may owe WGU a portion of tuition and fees. Refund methods default to a mailed check. Students
are encouraged to set up their preferred refund method.
All funding sources (i.e., internal and external scholarships, waivers, discounts and grants) will be reviewed and may be
subject to a proration calculation. In the case of third-party funds, i.e., employer contributions, government funding,
military payments, etc., if the payment exceeds tuition and fees, WGU will follow any instructions provided by the original
payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. If no instructions are provided, the refund will be processed to the
original payer. Students are responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed, after refunds to all payers.
Tuition Appeal
In the case of exceptional circumstances where students are not entitled to a refund under the policies outlined above,
students may make an appeal for tuition considerations by submitting a formal complaint containing a written explanation
of circumstances that warrant an exception to the published refund policy. Exceptional circumstances might include
incapacitating illness or injury. Supporting documentation to verify exceptional circumstances is required. Disciplinary
action imposed on a student due to violations of the Code of Student Conduct is not considered valid grounds for tuition
appeal. For more information, visit https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Student-Complaint-and-
Grievance-Policy/ta-p/194.