
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 32
Academic Policies
Credit Transfer Guidelines
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers.html
WGU does not grant credit for prior training or experience. However, students who enter with significant experience in
their field of study may be able to pass some of the required WGU assessments on an accelerated schedule. Transfer
guidelines are described below in excerpts from the WGU website and Student Handbook.
General Transfer Guidelines
Students that have taken courses or received a degree from a community college or another college or university are
likely already well on their way to a WGU degree. Students can almost always transfer credits when they send accredited
bachelor's or associate degree transcripts.
WGU offers a free transcript service to help students gather and submit transcripts. During the application, students will
be asked if they would like to opt-in to this service, and have their transcripts gathered and sent from participating
institutions.
For applicants that opt out of the free transcript service or if a school does not participate, official transcripts should be
mailed directly from transferring colleges to the WGU Transcripts Department. A student’s copy of their transcript is not
considered official unless it is sealed. Applicants should order official transcripts promptly, as they can take a few weeks
to arrive. Transcripts should be received by the fifth of the month prior to the intended start date.
The process for requesting and sending transcripts from previously attended institutions is described on the WGU
website: https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/transfer-to-wgu.html.
In order to have WGU complete an official transcript evaluation, applicants must complete the online application form,
pay the application fee, have a WGU issued ID, and WGU must have received official transcripts from the institution(s) at
which the applicant earned the credit or applicants must work with their Enrollment Counselor to mark their previously
attended institutions as not expected/excluded.
In order to ensure that WGU grants all transfer credit that the applicant is due and places the applicant appropriately in
their program, WGU recommends that applicants submit all transcripts from their previously attended institutions. WGU
does not perform unofficial evaluations or accept unofficial transcripts. WGU does not award transfer credit after the
student’s initial term start date, once a student begins studies at WGU.
Applicants may transfer credit up to and not exceeding 75 percent of their program. WGU determines the maximum
amount of credit an applicant may be able to transfer on a programmatic basis.
WGU conducts official transcript evaluations during the month prior to the applicant’s start date. WGU processes
transcripts in the order it receives them. Applicants should contact their Enrollment Counselor if it has been more than 15
business days since WGU received their transcripts and the applicant does not have a completed evaluation.
For more information on transfer policies, see https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Undergraduate-
Transfer-Credit/ta-p/49140.
For specific program transfer guidelines, see https://partners.wgu.edu/general-transfer-guidelines.
Transferring from a Community College
WGU maintains relations with many community colleges throughout the United States. Students transferring from a U.S.
community college can expect a comprehensive transfer policy. Information about community college transfers is
available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/transfer-to-wgu.html and https://partners.wgu.edu.
Transferring from WGU
WGU students who may be interested in transferring to another institution, either before or after completing their studies
at WGU, should keep in mind the following points:
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 33
• All institutions reserve the right to determine their own transfer policies, and not all academic work completed at
one institution may transfer to another.
• Students should check the transfer policies at the institution or institutions they are considering by consulting with
the admissions or registrar office at those institution(s).
• Students who transfer should request that the WGU registrar send an official academic transcript of their WGU
transfer credits and academic work to the institution(s) where they are applying for admission.
• The WGU academic transcript will note subject areas (domains) that were successfully completed. WGU transfer
credits and equivalencies for the completed domains will be listed.
For more information, see https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/wgu-transcript-request.html.
Term Registration and Enrollment
WGU starts a new term on the first day of every month and the duration is six calendar months in length. Students may
only be enrolled in a single term and are considered enrolled and active once term enrollment has been established.
Students register prior to a term by working with their Program Mentor to set a plan of courses to be completed. Students
then accept enrollment for the term on or after the first day of the new term. The term enrollment process is important
because by accepting enrollment, the student is agreeing to pay tuition in full, complete the courses by the end of the
term, and adhere to the Academic Activity Policy.
As part of the term planning process, the student will complete the course planning tool for each course for which they
are planning to register. During term registration, the student and Program Mentor will use the course planning tool
report, as well as information about the student's schedule and needs, to make a Term Plan that includes start and end
dates for each course in the term. The student will select these dates with their Program Mentor to help set a pace that
will ensure the student can complete the enrolled courses by the end of the term. Because starting courses in a timely
fashion is essential to staying on pace, each student should work with their Program Mentor to set a Term Plan and
accept enrollment by the 7th day of each term.
Term enrollment must be completed no later than the 10th day of the start of the term for continuing students and the
20th day of the start of the term for new students. Students who do not complete registration and enrollment for the new
term by these deadlines are administratively withdrawn from the university. First term students must also complete one of
the First Term Critical Actions within 45 days of the start of their first term to avoid administrative withdrawal. Once term
enrollment is established, students are considered enrolled for the term and are responsible for tuition charges. Once
students have enrolled in a term, they are committed to the courses and changes to enrollment will not be processed.
Academic Activity Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Academic-Activity-Policy/ta-p/11641
Course Planning Tool - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Course-Planning-Tool/ta-p/18853
First Term Critical Actions - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989
Working Ahead or Accelerating Courses
Students may accelerate their studies by adding courses to their active program to the term once they have successfully
completed all term requirements (original term enrollment). Students who choose to add additional courses to a term
should discuss course acceleration in detail with their Program Mentor. Students should complete the course planning
tool for a course before accelerating the course.
Marks of Not Passed
Students are responsible for making sure they complete all courses for which they are enrolled in a term. A mark of Not
Passed becomes part of the permanent academic record and transcript for all enrolled courses that are not attempted,
not completed and not passed. A mark of Not Passed will count against satisfactory academic progress. Refer to the
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy and the Incomplete Course Policy. A student’s academic history will not be
altered due to changes in program or course updates. Any changes or updates to the degree plan due to a program
change or course change does not negate the student’s responsibility to complete all courses in term enrollment.
Courses appearing on the transcript as Not Passed will not be altered should a student decide to pursue a program
change or course update. Some academic changes may result in a permanent unresolved Not Passed on a student’s
academic history and WGU transcript.
SAP Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Incomplete Course Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Incomplete-Course-Policy/ta-p/82
Accelerated Courses Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Accelerated-Courses/ta-p/18850
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 34
Passing Vendor Assessments/Certifications not Enrolled in Current Term
Students who attempt and pass a course with a vendor assessment(s)/certification(s) without enrolling in that course in
the term shall receive the grade of ‘Requirement Satisfied’ (RS). Students who attempt a course-related vendor
assessment(s)/certification(s), or take any other third-party assessment (e.g. PRAXIS) without course enrollment and/or
referral through WGU’s assessment scheduling procedures will not have the cost of the exam/voucher(s) paid nor
reimbursed by WGU.
Attendance Policy
WGU does not have an institutional attendance policy. Progress is governed by successfully completing assessments
that demonstrate mastery of the required competencies. Students engage in a variety of learning resources to build
competence and prepare for the assessments. In most cases, these learning materials are independent learning
resources such as textbooks, e-learning modules, study guides, simulations, virtual labs, and tutorials.
Communication Plan
WGU programs are designed for students to have timely, intentional interactions with faculty. A personalized
communication and support plan outlines when and how students will interact with faculty and other members of the
Community of Care at WGU. The information below explains the faculty support students will have and how they will
create and modify a personalized communication and support plan to help them stay on track to meet their goals.
WGU is dedicated to student success and wants students to have the faculty support they need when they need it.
Program Mentors and Instructors will provide regular and proactive personalized support based on a student’s needs.
Students and their Program Mentor will collaborate to incorporate individual needs and goals into the academic plan.
Program Mentors help students reach their educational goals by providing support with
• academic planning and pacing,
• coaching through obstacles, and
• instruction that connects program competencies to career goals.
Instructors provide personalized course pacing, planning, and instructional support throughout each course. Students
and Instructors will collaborate to help students
• build course-based competency,
• implement course-specific success strategies, and
• progress through each course according to the personalized academic plan.
A critical component to success at WGU is the personalized communication and support plan. Students and their
Program Mentor will use the student’s goals, activities, learning, and academic progress to build a plan for faculty
interaction that supports timely engagement and progress.
Working toward a degree is exciting, but for most students, it's also a journey that will take a year or more. Students are
more likely to achieve a big, long-term goal when they identify regular, periodic milestones along the way. WGU students
are most successful when they make steady progress throughout each term, and the communication and support plan
will help students stay on track. By collaborating with faculty members, students maximize their ability to succeed in
multiple ways:
• They will always know the most efficient and effective path forward, so they don't waste time trying to figure out
what to do next.
• They will build a solid network of expert partners who can help them navigate any challenges that come up.
• They will get their money's worth by taking full advantage of all the support and resources their tuition pays for.
At the start of each term, students will work with their Program Mentor to create a personalized communication and
support plan. When they create their plan with their Program Mentor, they will identify when and how they will interact
with their Program Mentor, Instructors, and other members of the Community of Care as needed. The frequency, timing,
and format of interactions in any term will depend on the student’s goals, progress, and individual needs. Throughout the
term, students and their Program Mentor will review the communication and support plan to make sure it is still helping
them progress toward their goals and engage regularly in their studies. As students learn what works well for them and
what support they need, they will modify the plan as needed. The communication and support plan is personalized to the
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 35
student, so it won't be the same as another student's plan. The best plan is the one that helps students make consistent
progress, demonstrate regular academic activity, and meet their academic goals.
More information on the Communication Plan is available in the student handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Information-
Resources/Communication-Plan/ta-p/99.
Academic Progress
Western Governors University helps students achieve their dreams for a degree and career success by providing a
personalized, flexible, and affordable education based upon real-world competencies. WGU takes an active interest in
students' progress through their academic programs and requires students to make measurable advancement toward
completion of their degree program each term. With this in mind, the university has established the following policies:
On-Time Progress (OTP): Students completing within the term, a minimum of 12 competency units (CUs) at the
undergraduate level, and 8 competency units at the graduate level, are considered to be making on-time progress toward
graduation.
Lack of Progress: (For terms that end on or after June 2025) WGU will administratively withdraw any student from the
university at the end of a term if they complete zero competency units.
Academic Progress Appeals: If a student desires to be considered for continued enrollment after completing zero
cumulative CUs in a term, the student must submit an appeal. Appeals must be received within the appeal window (see
link below). Students who fail to appeal within the designated time frame or whose appeal is denied may be eligible to
return via the standard readmission process. WGU does not guarantee continued enrollment or readmission.
Academic Progress and Appeals - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Academic-Progress/ta-p/52
Withdrawal from WGU - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Withdrawal-from-WGU/ta-p/84
Readmission Following Withdrawal - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Admission/Readmission-Following-Withdrawal/ta-p/143
Academic Activity Policy
In addition to the requirements of the Academic Progress policy, students are expected to demonstrate consistent
engagement with their studies throughout each academic term. Activities demonstrating academic engagement include:
• Academic discussion with faculty
• Completing course planning tools
• Activating a course by clicking the Start Course button
• Setting term enrollment
• Completing pre-assessments
• Completing objective assessments
• Submitting a performance assessment task for evaluation
• Attending a faculty-led live event, such as a webinar
• Use of course learning resources
• Viewing recorded faculty-led live events
• Viewing a course-related academic video
Students who are not academically engaged for a period of 14 days may be required to meet with their Program Mentor
to develop a plan for the immediate resumption of their studies, to include reengagement with course learning resources
and/or meeting with an Instructor. Students who demonstrate 28 days of inactivity will be subject to administrative
withdrawal. An academically inactive student will be notified prior to withdrawal.
First-Term Critical Actions
First-Term Critical Actions are academic activities that are highly correlated with student success in the first term (and
each successive term). *New students accordingly, are required to engage in at least one of the following academic
activities in at least one registered course during the first 45 days of their first term:
• Completion of a Preassessment
• Completion of an Objective Assessment
• Submission of a Performance Assessment Task
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 36
Note: If a performance assessment task is returned without an evaluation (as expressed in a comment accompanying the
returned task), the submission does not count as a Critical Action. If an evaluation is completed, the submission will
count as a Critical Action whether the submission passes or is returned for revision. If a task is subject to an Academic
Authenticity evaluation, a case-by-case determination may occur on whether the submission will count.
*Readmission students or Continuing Graduates are not considered new students and this policy does not apply.
Students who do not complete at least one of the requirements listed above will be administratively withdrawn after the
45th day and will receive a prorated tuition refund in accordance with WGU’s Refund Policy. Any activity that occurs
before the first day of the term or after the 45th day cannot be considered a Critical Action. Students administratively
withdrawn under this policy will receive the transcript notation of ''Dropped'' on all registered courses.
Students will receive multiple email notifications if they are approaching the Critical Action deadline. Appeal information is
available at https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989.
WGU Grading System
WGU Transcripts include the following possible marks:
• Pass: Certifies successful completion of a course of study. A student has demonstrated required competencies by
passing the final assessment with a grade equivalent of B or better or 3.00 grade points on a 4.00 scale.
• Not Passed: Indicates the student did not complete the required assessment(s) to demonstrate competency
before the end of the term.
• Requirement Satisfied: Recognizes that a student has satisfied the requirements of a course of study through
alternate coursework that may not be directly transferred.
• Transfer: Signifies that the student has completed equivalent coursework or holds certifications or licenses that
comply with WGU transfer credit policies.
• Withdrawn: Represents that the student was withdrawn from WGU or a course before term completion.
• Dropped: Verifies that the course was dropped from term registration and is not included in attempted units.
• Incomplete: Indicates an arrangement between WGU and the student to complete the course before an agreed
upon, later date. The student has not completed the entirety of the coursework and/or the final assessment has
been deferred.
• In Progress: Indicates a course was not completed within the term because the course, by design, requires a fixed
period of time, more than one term to be completed, and/or is not intended to be bound by the term structure of
WGU.
The university does not calculate a grade point average (GPA), but its grading scheme means students receive between
a 3.0 and 4.0 on a 4.0-scale.
WGU enters grades on transcripts upon completion of a course of study. A course of study In Progress will not appear on
the transcript until the end of a Term. Students receive a grade of Pass, Not Passed, In Progress, Dropped or Withdrawn
on their permanent academic record and transcript for any course(s) of study for which they enroll in a Term, regardless
of whether they attempt an assessment. WGU will not replace an earned Pass or Not Passed with a grade of Withdrawn.
WGU counts grades of Not Passed and Withdrawn as units not completed and, as such, these grades count against
satisfactory academic progress.
Degree Plan
The degree plan, accessed via the my.wgu.edu student portal, serves as a student's blueprint of program requirements
(often called the standard path) and associated learning resources. The degree plan outlines a student's course and non-
course requirements in their program and allows students and Program Mentors to work together in planning the path to
graduation. The degree plan displays the course details (including course name, course code, complete or not yet
complete status, number of competency units, and the assessment type) and start and end dates for registered courses.
The student degree plan lists the courses of study, including assessments, required to complete an academic program.
Students access learning resources and make requests to schedule Objective Assessments or begin Performance
Assessments inside the online version of a course of study.
The standard path through a student's degree plan may be adjusted by the student and Program Mentor to meet the
student's individual needs during term enrollment. Some programs allow substantial reordering of the standard path, but
others do not allow any modification.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 37
WGU starts a new term on the first day of every month. Each term is six calendar months in duration. Students may not
be enrolled in multiple terms simultaneously. A student may not enroll in a new term until at least six months after the
start of their most recent enrolled term. A student who graduates, changes programs, or withdraws from WGU will not be
able to start a new term until at least six months after the start date of their most recent enrolled term.
Once term enrollment is complete courses shall not be removed except with the approval of the Office of the Registrar.
Students may add courses to the term in accordance with the Accelerated Courses policy (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-
Student-Policy-Handbook/Accelerated-Courses/ta-p/18850).
By registering for a course, the student agrees to work on and complete the course within the term. Students should be
prepared to engage in and pass all courses for which they enroll. A course that is not passed by the end of the term will
be listed as ''Not Passed'' on the academic transcript. This includes courses for which the student did not attempt the
assessment by the end of the term.
Term enrollment should take place within the first ten days of the start of a new term. Students must be enrolled at least
full time (12 competency units for undergraduate students and 8 for graduate students). Students who do not complete
full-time registration and enrollment for the new term by the 25th of the first month of their term are administratively
withdrawn from WGU.
For more information on degree plans, visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/degree-plan.html or for
assessments, visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/assessments.html.
Courses of Study
The degree plan lists the courses of study required to complete an academic program. A course of study is comprised of
five important aspects:
• Defined competencies students are required to demonstrate
• Learning resources needed to gain the competencies
• Contact information for Instructors to support student development of the competencies
• A learning community centered on the competencies
• The assessments of the competencies
Each course of study is assigned a number of competency units (CUs).
Learning Unit
One (1) competency unit (CU) is equivalent to one (1) semester credit of learning. A CU is the value assigned to each
assessment to permit tracking of academic progress. Traditional classroom learning is based on the Carnegie Unit where
a credit hour is the equivalent of one clock hour of learning (generally considered 50 lecture minutes) per week over the
course of a 15-week semester. WGU competency units (CUs) are equivalent to semester hours at other institutions. For
example, one (1) CU equals one (1) semester hour of credit. In other terms, using the metric of three (3) semester hours
equaling 45 clock hours, one (1) CU is the equivalent of 15 clock hours. This equivalency has been accepted by our
external regulators and by other universities (for transfer of credits). WGU transcripts show the number of CUs assigned
to each course.
Term Enrollment
Term enrollment is the process of choosing courses and verifying enrollment for the term of study. During term
enrollment, students and their Program Mentor will map out which assessments to complete and the time frame in which
to do so by established start and end dates. Program Mentors will schedule at least the minimum number of competency
units required for full-time enrollment (12 units for undergraduate students, 8 units for graduate students). On-time
progress is based on how term enrollment is set each term.
Start and End Dates
To help students plan their progress through the term and to set a study schedule and calendar, students and their
Program Mentors will set start and end dates for each course. With these dates, students can plan how to accelerate or
where to spend more time in getting ready to demonstrate competency in an assessment area.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 38
Computer Requirements
Students should use the following technical requirements to guide their selection of a technology package for use during
their academic program at WGU. Systems purchased new within the past two years will typically come with the following
recommended features. Students can check the technical readiness of their computer system by using the WGU System
Check tool to ensure they meet university requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/computer-requirements.html
Hardware Requirements - To use WGU's online systems, a student must have a computer with the following:
• Device Type - personal (not business or school)
• CPU - at least 4 cores at 2.4 GHz (minimum)
• RAM - 8 GB (minimum), 16 GB (recommended)
• Free internal storage space - at least 20 GB
• Built-in or external speakers (Hard-wired or Bluetooth speakers are acceptable. Headphones are not allowed to be
used during a proctored online objective assessment.)
• See the additional system requirements section for additional Meazure Learning online proctoring requirements
• Additional requirements for the School of Technology are listed in the student handbook
(https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Computer-System-and-Technology-Requirements/ta-p/78)
Network Requirements - To use WGU's online system, a student must have access to a network with the following:
• Network Type - personal (not business or public)
• Network Speed - download/upload 5 Mbps (minimum), 20 Mbps (recommended), mobile hotspots and tethering
are highly discouraged for testing purposes
Fully Supported Operating Systems - These operating systems are thoroughly tested to be compatible with all WGU
content and are required for proctored online objective assessments:
• Windows 10 or higher - Microsoft will stop supporting Windows 10 in October 2025. Students should ensure their
computers are compatible with Windows 11 after that date. Students should contact a local computer support
vendor for further support, as the WGU Service Desk cannot help upgrade the operating system.
• macOS 13 Ventura or higher
Partially Supported Operating Systems - These operating systems will work with most WGU content, but some features
and applications may require a fully supported operating system from the list above. They are prohibited during proctored
online objective assessments.
• Android version 8 or higher
• iOS/iPadOS version 16 or higher
Unsupported Operating Systems - These operating systems may not be compatible with WGU content and are prohibited
during proctored online objective assessments. WGU support teams cannot provide support for issues encountered while
using them.
• Windows in S Mode (Windows 11 S or Windows 10 S)
• Chrome OS
• Linux / Unix
• Surface RT / Windows on Arm
• Virtual Machines / Containers
Software Requirements:
• Microsoft 365 - using the license and software suite provided by WGU for all students, which is required for
submitting most performance assessments unless otherwise specified.
• WGU recommends all students have an up-to-date antivirus program.
• Grammarly for Education - using the license provided by WGU for all students.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 39
Additional System Requirements for Online Proctored (OLP) Assessments with Meazure Learning:
• USB port or USB-compatible dongle adapter
• CPU Usage Below: 85%
• RAM Usage Below: 95%
• Network Speed: 5Mbs Upload, 5Mbs Download (Mobile Hotspots and Tethering are highly discouraged for Testing
Purposes)
• Guardian Browser
• Monitor Count 1 (unless you have existing accommodations)
• Monitor Resolution: 1366x768 (minimum)
• Monitor Height and Width: 640px (minimum)
• Ports Open UDP/TCP 80; UDP/TCP 443
Supported Internet Browsers - WGU strongly encourages up-to-date browser versions that incorporate security fixes and
newer technologies, resulting in better user experiences. In addition, WGU does not support any browser that is not
explicitly listed below.
• Microsoft Edge: Version 122 or higher
• Mozilla Firefox: Version 125 or higher
• Google Chrome or Chromium: Version 120 or higher (browser download required for WGU-proctored online
objective assessments)
• Safari on macOS (Maci/X12): Version 17 or higher
• Opera (OPR): Version 107 or higher
• iOS (CPU OS, iPhone OS, CPU iPhone, CPU iPad OS): Version 17 or higher
• Android with Firefox: Version 124 or higher
• Android with Chrome or Chromium: Version 123 or higher
• Guardian Browser (WGU-proctored online objective assessments require the Guardian Browser to be
downloaded)
Multimedia Apps and Plugins - Adobe Reader or PDF reader of choice
External Webcam
Students are required to obtain an external web camera that meets certain technical specifications. A laptop's integrated
camera does not meet these requirements. Cameras MUST BE external and elevated to achieve required viewing angle.
Recommendations and specifications are listed in the student handbook (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-
Requirements/Computer-System-and-Technology-Requirements/ta-p/78).
Additional Technology and Software Recommendations
WGU requires students to use several third-party learning resources. System requirements for these resources vary
widely by program and assessment and may differ significantly from those listed above. Information Technology
students, in particular, may need to install applications requiring a more powerful computer or a specific operating
system. If students are concerned that their computer may not meet the minimum requirements for any third-party
learning resource or specific application in their degree program, they should contact Student Support Services.
Student Accessibility Services
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Services/Policies-and-Procedures-for-Students-with-Disabilities/ta-p/151
Western Governors University is committed to providing equal access to its academic programs to all qualified students.
The University’s Student Accessibility Services supports this commitment by providing support, resources, advocacy,
collaboration, and academic accommodations that conform to federal and state statutes and regulations.
WGU complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the ''ADA''), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other
applicable disability discrimination laws. WGU is committed to providing reasonable accommodation(s) to qualified
disabled applicants and learners in WGU programs and activities as required by applicable law.
The determination of reasonable accommodation(s) for qualified students with disabilities, and compliance with the ADA
and the Rehabilitation Act, are the responsibility of WGU Student Accessibility Services. Student Accessibility Services is
the principal point of contact for all students with disability questions or concerns (ADAsupport@wgu.edu).
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 40
WGU encourages current and prospective students needing accommodation(s) and/or resources to contact Student
Accessibility Services for assistance. Student Accessibility Services will respond to requests for accommodation(s) in
accordance with the Policies and Procedures for Students with Disabilities published in the student handbook.
WGU complies with applicable laws concerning the confidentiality of disability-related health information and it is
committed to ensuring that all information regarding student health remains appropriately confidential; only Student
Accessibility Services has access to student health information. Student Accessibility Services retains student health and
accommodation information for the length of a student’s enrollment at WGU. If a student wishes to have a record deleted
during their enrollment, they must send a written request to Student Accessibility Services. Students may authorize the
release of disability information to people or organizations outside of WGU. Before providing such authorization, students
should understand the nature of the information to be released and the purpose. WGU may infrequently be required by
law to disclose disability information without student consent.
Student Complaint Process
The student complaint policy provides guidance on proper avenues for addressing university-related concerns. A
complaint is an expression of dissatisfaction arising from a student’s experience with or treatment by university personnel
or policies. A grievance is a complaint based on a perceived unfairness or discrimination. Academic and financial appeals
(i.e. issues related to competency assessments, academic progress, academic outcomes, financial aid, payments, etc.)
are NOT considered complaints and should be handled through the processes published by the relevant departments.
Please see the student handbook article on Academic and Financial Appeals Information for a listing of university
appeals processes (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Academic-and-Financial-Appeals-
Information/ta-p/19084).
If a complaint involves any type of alleged discrimination or harassment in violation of the WGU Equal Opportunity,
Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes or the student wishes to remain anonymous, the
student or any other offended party may immediately make a formal complaint to the Title IX Coordinator per the process
outlined in the policy or through Speak Up WGU™.
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Equal-Opportunity-Harassment-and-Nondiscrimination-Policy-
and/ta-p/30767
Speak Up WGU™ online reporting site: www.speakupwgu.ethicspoint.com
Speak Up WGU™ hotline number: 1-(844) 838-1102
The full complaint policy (with information on student ombuds, informal complaints, formal complaints) can be viewed
here: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Student-Complaint-and-Grievance-Policy/ta-p/194
Academic Authenticity
Academic Authenticity is fundamental to the educational process and the assurance of credential integrity at Western
Governors University (WGU). WGU holds that respect for ideas and intellectual property rights is critical to academic
success. Therefore, this policy establishes the expectations and standards of Academic Authenticity for WGU students.
This policy applies to all WGU students regardless of location.
Academic Authenticity means the ethical completion of WGU coursework. Examples include appropriately attributing text,
pictures, tables, and graphs used in coursework to the creators and each student completing their own coursework,
including not submitting work generated by artificial intelligence (AI) as the student’s own work.
All members of the WGU community share the responsibility of ensuring that community members, particularly students,
observe the authentic expression of ideas. Examples of Academic Authenticity include but are not limited to:
• Attributing text, pictures, tables, and graphs used in coursework to their creators.
• Giving credit to all sources used, including WGU-provided course materials and the student’s own work used as a
source.
• Appropriately paraphrasing and/or synthesizing sources.
• Completing assessments independently and honestly to verify individual competency.
WGU expects all students to abide by the following requirements related to Academic Authenticity:
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 41
Intellectual Property
• Students may not use any WGU assessment answers or other assessment content found, requested, shared, or
purchased on the internet (or elsewhere) to complete their own work. This includes, but is not limited to, using
answers to assessment questions or projects completed by someone else and passing, or attempting to pass,
those answers and projects off as the students’ own work.
• Similarly, active students may not share responses to assessments or projects, including by uploading work on
tutoring websites or social media, except as authorized by specific programs for portfolio-building purposes.
• Students may not copy, record, or disclose WGU assessment, course, project, or learning materials to anyone
else. This includes copying for personal use and disclosing on websites, blogs, and other social media. Students’
final work-product developed in relation to projects may fall under the portfolio exception listed below.
• Students may use capstone projects as source materials so long as they properly cite the source. However,
students may not use any previously completed capstone project from another WGU degree or another institution
as the final submission of a capstone project for a different degree program in which the student is currently
enrolled.
• Students may consent to have their capstone work archived for restricted view by other students and alumni. They
may also use and repurpose their capstone and other performance tasks for use when they graduate as an
electronic portfolio in furtherance of their professional careers or as an achievement on an academic resume, with
care not to violate rules above.
• Any sources used by students in their coursework must be academic in nature and cited properly.
Assessments
• Unless official WGU instructions direct otherwise, assessments and projects must be the student’s own individual
work. Students shall not engage in unauthorized collaborative efforts in the creation, completion, submission, or
revision of assessments. This includes working with other students or using AI-generated content unless official
WGU instructions direct otherwise. All students must demonstrate competency in their own work.
• With the exception of capstone archives, students may not read, or review completed assessments for the
purpose of generating thought, comparing how other students addressed the task, reviewing references, or any
other reason.
• Students shall not falsify or misrepresent information submitted to meet the requirement of any assessment.
• Objective Assessment:
◦ WGU may record all proctored objective assessments. When taking a proctored WGU assessment, the
student may not access any device or material not specifically approved in advance nor communicate with
anyone except the proctor. This includes, but is not limited to: highlighting material during the assessment,
running unapproved software or programs, and accessing the internet to search for related materials or
definitions.
◦ Students shall not read questions aloud.
◦ All audio and video equipment must be in working order.
◦ WGU requires the student, including hands and arms, to remain in the view of the proctor at all times.
Performance Assessment
• If students use material from any appropriate source, the student must provide attribution to that source. Examples
of appropriate sources include, but are not limited to, course-provided content, books, scholarly journals, and
online encyclopedias. Students found to be in violation may be subject to sanctions.
• Students must only submit files that WGU can scan through the Similarity Checker unless indicated otherwise by
the task directions. Students should only submit handwritten documents and pictures during an Evaluation if the
task directions specifically call for submission of that file type.
• To protect each student’s identity, WGU encourages (but does not require) students to remove all personally
identifiable information, such as phone numbers and addresses, from each submission.
• WGU will store a copy of all submitted work to prevent its use in future submissions.
The Student Code of Conduct defines violations of this policy as ''cheating,'' which is subject to sanctions up to and
including expulsion from WGU. WGU may block student access to assessment scheduling or task submission while an
investigation of alleged violations of this policy is underway.
University procedures relating to Academic Authenticy are listed in the student handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-
Student-Policy-Handbook/Academic-Authenticity/ta-p/128.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 42
Student Code of Conduct
PURPOSE
Western Governors University (WGU) holds the belief that respect for individuals, ideas, and the authenticity of Student
work are all critical to a thriving society. Accordingly, WGU maintains that all members of the WGU Community have a
shared responsibility for ethical, responsible, and respectful behavior and should comply with all applicable laws in
addition to the standards WGU has set forth in this Student Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct). This Policy applies to all
WGU Students and persons enrolled in WGU courses or offerings.
DEFINITIONS
1. Academic Record: Information relating to a student’s academic performance including transcripts, narrative notes
of the student’s academic progress as documented by the student’s program mentor(s) and course instructor(s),
assessment and evaluation results, external exam scores, and results of any academic appeals filed by the
student.
2. Accused Student: Any Student accused of violating this Student Code of Conduct.
3. Appellate Board: A panel authorized by the Student Conduct Manager to evaluate a student’s appeal of any
Student Conduct Board outcome.
4. Complainant: Any person who submits a complaint alleging that a student violated a Policy.
5. Disciplinary Record: A statement of complaints, summary of information considered by or presented to the Student
Conduct Board, findings or sanctions, records of appeals, and rationale for the decisions when the student is
found responsible for the alleged infraction(s).
6. Education Records: Broadly defined to include all records directly related to a student which are protected from
disclosure under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Disciplinary Records and Academic
Records are considered Education Records and, as a result, are kept confidential in accordance with applicable
law.
7. Harassment: Any unwelcome verbal, physical, written, electronic, or non-verbal conduct (whether directly,
indirectly, or through a third party) based on that person’s inclusion in one or more protected classes that is
sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive to alter the conditions of employment of an employee or to limit,
interfere with, or deny educational benefits or opportunities of a Student, from both a subjective and objective
viewpoint based on a totality of the circumstances. The circumstances establishing potential Harassment may
include the frequency and severity of the conduct, whether the conduct was physically threatening or humiliating,
the effect of the conduct on the individual’s mental or emotional state, whether the conduct was directed at more
than one person, whether the conduct arose in the context of other discriminatory conduct, and whether the
speech or conduct deserves the protections of academic freedom.
8. Identity Misrepresentation: The use of false, stolen, or borrowed identification materials (e.g., driver’s license) to
obtain admission to WGU or access to student financial aid or WGU programs, assessments, or other activities.
9. Policy: The approved written standards, requirements, restrictions, rights, or responsibilities and courses of action
that guide decision making and determine behavior relevant to the university community necessary for
accomplishing business of the university. These items are stored in several locations including, but not limited to
the WGU Student Handbook including this Student Code of Conduct and any Student handbook specific to a
WGU degree program. All WGU Policy is made continuously available to Students on the University’s website.
10. Student: All persons in all locations taking courses at WGU either full time or part time, pursuing undergraduate,
graduate, or professional studies or those in a term break status. Persons who withdraw after allegedly violating
the Student Code of Conduct and those who are not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a
continuing relationship with WGU are also considered Students.
11. Student Conduct Board (Board): A panel of persons authorized and trained by the Student Conduct Manager to
determine whether a student has violated the Code of Conduct and to decide sanctions that WGU may impose
when a student has committed a violation.
12. Student Conduct Manager (Manager): The person designated by WGU to be responsible for the administration of
the Student Code of Conduct.
13. Student Conduct Officer (Officer): A WGU Employee authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Student Conduct
Manager to investigate complaints, adjudicate administrative resolutions, advise the Student Conduct Board, and
carry out sanctions as directed by the Student Conduct Board.
14. WGU Community: All WGU employees, Students, and other stakeholders who participate in WGU business,
academic, or other activities.
15. WGU Premises: All land, buildings, facilities, portals, communities, and other property, whether online or physical,
in the possession of or owned, used, or controlled by WGU.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 43
POLICY
Student Code Authority
1. The Student Conduct Manager shall determine the composition of the Student Conduct Board and Appellate
Boards and determine which Student Conduct Board, Student Conduct Officer (Officer), or Appellate Board shall
be authorized to hear matters brought under this Code of Conduct.
2. The Student Conduct Manager develops the Policies for the administration of the student conduct system as
described herein, and procedural rules for the conduct of Student Conduct Board Hearings in the Procedures
section of this policy.
3. The Student Conduct Board and/or Student Conduct Officer designated by the Student Conduct Manager shall
have decision-making authority on all matters assigned to them.
Jurisdiction of Student Code of Conduct
The Student Code of Conduct shall apply to conduct that adversely affects the WGU Community. Each Student shall be
responsible for the Student’s own conduct from the time of application for admission through the actual awarding of a
degree, even though conduct may occur before courses begin or after courses end, during periods between terms of
actual enrollment, or WGU may not discover the conduct until after it has awarded a degree. The Code of Conduct shall
apply to a Student’s conduct even if the Student withdraws from WGU while a disciplinary matter is pending. The Code of
Conduct governs WGU's Community standards, and each Student is bound by this Code of Conduct by virtue of
engaging with WGU coursework, resources, and systems regardless of whether the Student has formally read or
acknowledged it.
Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes
In addition to the Code of Conduct, all Students at WGU are subject to WGU’s Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and
Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes (Nondiscrimination Policy). In cases where the provisions in the Code
of Conduct and the provisions in the Nondiscrimination Policy are different or inconsistent, the Nondiscrimination Policy
supersedes.
Prohibited Conduct
Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following misconduct is subject to the
disciplinary sanctions outlined in this Code of Conduct:
1. Acts of dishonesty, including but not limited to the following:
◦ Violations of the Academic Authenticity Policy.
◦ Identity Misrepresentation.
◦ Furnishing false information to any WGU Employee or office.
◦ Forgery, alteration, or misuse of any WGU document, record, or instrument of identification.
2. Disruption or obstruction of advising, facilitation, instruction, research, administration, disciplinary proceedings or
other WGU activity.
3. Unprofessional conduct including Harassment, threatening, bullying or verbal abuse of any member of the WGU
Community by any means (conduct, speech, written notes, electronic communication, etc.), or use of threats,
profanity, and demeaning or intimidating comments.
4. Physical abuse, threats of physical abuse, and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or safety
of any person.
5. Illegal use, possession, or distribution of alcohol or any controlled substance on WGU Premises or at WGU-
sponsored events or educational activities.
6. Attempted or actual theft of and/or damage to property of WGU or property of a member of the WGU Community.
7. Failure to conform to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the Teachers College Professional
Disposition and Ethics, the Leavitt School of Health Code of Professional Conduct and Dispositions, and similar
standards of professional conduct associated with other WGU field experience programs.
8. Violation of any WGU policy.
9. Violation of any federal, state or local law.
10. Illegal or unauthorized possession of firearms, explosives, other weapons, or dangerous chemicals on WGU
premises or use of any such item, even if legally possessed, in a manner that harms, threatens or causes fear to
others.
11. Theft, abuse or misuse of WGU computing, information, and communication systems (''WGU systems'') and/or
protected WGU information, files, and resources (''WGU resources'') including but not limited to:
◦ Unauthorized entry into WGU resources to use, read, or change the contents, or for any other purpose.
◦ Unauthorized transfer of WGU resources.
◦ Use of another individual’s user name and/or password.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 44
◦ Use of WGU systems to interfere with the work of another member of the WGU community.
◦ Use of WGU systems to send obscene or harassing messages.
◦ Interfering with the normal operation of WGU systems and WGU resources.
◦ Use of WGU resources in violation of WGU’s Student License Agreement for use of learning resources.
◦ Unauthorized use of WGU systems and WGU resources to obtain or disclose the personal details of
another member of the WGU community.
◦ Tampering with communications.
12. Abuse of the Student Conduct System, including but not limited to:
◦ Failure to obey a notice from a Student Conduct Officer to appear for a meeting or hearing as part of the
Student Conduct System.
◦ Falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation of information in a Student Conduct proceeding.
◦ Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a Student Conduct Board proceeding.
◦ Initiation of or participation in a Student Conduct proceeding in bad faith.
◦ Attempting to discourage an individual’s proper participation in or use of the Student Conduct system.
◦ Attempting to influence the impartiality of any WGU employee prior to and/or during the course of a Student
Conduct proceeding.
◦ Harassment (verbal, non-verbal, or physical) and/or intimidation of a participant in a Student Conduct
proceeding prior to, during, and/or after a student conduct code proceeding.
◦ Failure to comply with the sanction(s) imposed under the Student Code.
◦ Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse of the Student Code of Conduct
process.
Attempts and Complicity. WGU prohibits attempting to commit acts prohibited by the Code of Conduct and/or knowingly
or willfully encouraging or assisting others to commit any of these acts. WGU will adjudicate attempts and complicity in
the same manner as direct violations.
Violation of Law and WGU Discipline. WGU may institute disciplinary proceedings against a Student whose conduct
potentially violates both the criminal law and the Code of Conduct (if both alleged violations result from the same factual
situation) without regard to the pendency of civil or criminal litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution.
Proceedings under this Code of Conduct may continue prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal
proceedings at the discretion of the Student Conduct Manager. Determinations made or sanctions imposed under this
Code of Conduct shall not be subject to change as of result of the dismissal, reduction, or resolution of criminal
complaints arising out of the same facts giving rise to violation of WGU standards.
Any member of the WGU Community may file a complaint against a Student for violations of the Code of Conduct.
PROCEDURES
Complaints and Student Conduct Board Hearings. Individuals must submit an alleged charge(s) in writing to the Student
Conduct Officer in a timely manner (i.e., as soon as is practical and without unnecessary or unreasonable delay) after the
event takes place or they discover the alleged violation. The Student Conduct Board retains the right to review all
documents and information submitted to WGU.
1. The Student Conduct Officer may investigate to determine if the charge(s) has merit and/or if it can be dismissed
administratively by mutual consent of the parties involved and with the approval of the Student Conduct Officer. If
the Student Conduct Officer decides that dismissal for lack of merit is appropriate, the Officer shall deliver a
written explanation of their analysis to the parties to obtain the parties’ consent for dismissal. Such disposition
shall be final and there shall be no subsequent proceedings.
2. If the Accused Student admits to violations described in the complaint, but the parties do not agree on appropriate
sanctions, subsequent procedures, including any hearing, if necessary, shall be limited to determining the
appropriate sanction(s).
3. The Student Conduct Officer, or their designee, shall present all complaints to the Accused Student in written
form. A time shall be set for the Student Conduct Board hearing, not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15)
calendar days after the Officer notifies the Student. The Student Conduct Officer, at their discretion, may extend
the maximum time limits for scheduling of Student Conduct Board hearings.
4. Student Conduct Board hearings shall occur virtually in accordance with the following:
◦ Student Conduct Board hearings shall be closed to public attendees.
◦ The Board shall allow the Complainant, Accused Student, and their advisor(s), if any, to attend the entire
portion of the Student Conduct Board hearing at which the Board receives information (excluding
deliberations). Admission of any other person to the Student Conduct Board Hearing shall be at the
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 45
discretion of the Student Conduct Board and/or its Student Conduct Officer and limited to only persons
necessary to the proceedings.
◦ In Student Conduct Board hearings involving more than one Accused Student, the Student Conduct Officer,
at their discretion, may determine to conduct the Accused Students’ hearings either separately or jointly.
◦ Upon five (5) days advance written notice to the WGU Conduct Office at conductadmin@wgu.edu, the
Complainant and the Accused Student may choose an advisor to assist them in the proceedings. The
advisor must be a member of the WGU Community and may not be acting in the capacity of an attorney. If
the Complainant and/or the Accused Student fail to provide a minimum of five (5) days’ notice, the Student
Conduct Officer may reschedule the Student Conduct Board hearing.
◦ The Complainant and/or the Accused Student is responsible for representing themselves and presenting
any relevant information at the hearing; therefore, advisors may not speak or participate directly in any
Student Conduct Board hearing. A Student should select as an advisor a person whose schedule allows
attendance at the scheduled date and time for the Student Conduct Board hearing.
◦ The Complainant, the Accused Student, and the Student Conduct Board may arrange for witnesses to
present relevant information to the Student Conduct Board. At the discretion of the Student Conduct Officer,
the Officer will try to arrange the attendance of witnesses who are members of the WGU Community, if the
Complainant and/or Accused Student have identified such witnesses at least five (5) business days prior to
the hearing. Witnesses will provide information to, and answer questions from, the Student Conduct Board.
The Accused Student and/or Complainant may suggest questions for the Board to ask each other or
witnesses. The Board will conduct the questioning with such questions directed to the chairperson, rather
than to the witness directly to preserve the educational tone of the hearing and to avoid creation of an
adversarial environment. The Board chairperson, at their discretion, shall resolve questions of whether the
Board will receive potential information.
◦ At the discretion of the chairperson, the Student Conduct Board may accept any relevant records, exhibits,
and written statements as evidence.
◦ All procedural questions are subject to the final decision of the chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
◦ After hearing and receiving all relevant evidence, the Student Conduct Board shall determine by consensus
whether the Accused Student has committed the violations as alleged in the complaint.
◦ The Student Conduct Board shall use the preponderance of the evidence standard to make its
determination(s) (i.e., it is more likely than not that the Accused Student committed the violations as
alleged).
◦ Student Code of Conduct proceedings are not subject to formal rules of process, procedure, and/or
technical rules of evidence, such as are applicable in criminal or civil court.
5. There shall be a single record, such as an audio recording (or contemporaneous account) of all Student Conduct
Board hearings; however, there shall be no recording of the Board’s deliberations. The record shall be the
property of WGU and will become part of the Accused Student’s Disciplinary Record. WGU maintains the record in
accordance with all WGU records retention policies. WGU will keep the record of a suspended or expelled Student
indefinitely.
6. If an Accused Student receives appropriate notice and does not attend the Student Conduct Board hearing, the
presentation of information in support of the complaint and Board consideration will proceed even if the Accused
Student is not present.
7. The Student Conduct Board may accommodate concerns for the personal safety, well-being, and/or fears of
confrontation of the Complainant or witnesses during the hearing by permitting participation by separate meeting,
separate telephone line, written statement, or other means, where determined to be appropriate by the Student
Conduct Officer.
Following the Student Conduct Board hearing, the Student Conduct Officer shall advise the Accused Student and the
Complainant in writing of the Board’s determination and of the sanction(s) imposed, if any.
Sanctions: WGU will impose sanctions for violations that the Student Conduct Board determines the Student has
committed. When determining which sanctions to impose, the Student Conduct Board will consider the Student’s history
of misconduct and the severity of the violations. Certain behaviors, such as proxy cheating, are considered egregious
violations of the Code and may warrant expulsion without prior warnings or remediation opportunities. The Student
Conduct Board may direct the Student Conduct Officer to impose any of the following sanctions and may impose more
than one sanction for each violation:
1. Level 1 Warning: A written (email) notice that a Student’s conduct is violating or has violated the Code of Conduct
and the misconduct must cease immediately and not occur again in the future.
2. Level 2 Warning: A written notice indicating that a Student’s conduct is violating or has violated the standards of
conduct including an improvement plan that will demonstrate conduct conforming to the Student Code of Conduct
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 46
within a specified period of time. A Level 2 Warning includes the probability of more severe sanctions for any
subsequent violation of the Code of Conduct.
3. Loss of Privileges: A written notice of the denial of specified privileges for a designated period of time.
4. Restitution: An order requiring the Accused Student to compensate relevant parties for loss, damage, or injury.
This may take the form of appropriate service and/or monetary or material replacement.
5. Discretionary Sanctions: Work assignments, essays, service to WGU or other related discretionary assignments.
6. Disciplinary Suspension: Separation of the Student from WGU for a definite length of time, after which the Student
is eligible to return. WGU may specify conditions for readmission.
7. Removal from Academic Program: Removal of the Student from their chosen academic program for behaviors not
conforming to the standards of professional conduct associated with programs leading to professional licensure.
The Student Conduct Board may, at its discretion, suggest one or more alternative academic programs. If the
Student does not accept an alternative program or WGU deems it inappropriate under the circumstances, the
Accused Student will be subject to administrative withdrawal.
8. Disciplinary Expulsion: Permanent separation of the Student from WGU without the possibility of readmission.
9. Revocation of transcript grades and/or assessment results: WGU may amend grades or assessment results that
are part of the Student’s Academic Record.
10. Revocation of Admission and/or Degree: WGU may revoke admission to, or a degree awarded from WGU for
fraud, misrepresentation, or other violation of WGU standards in obtaining the degree, or for other serious
violations a Student committed prior to graduation.
11. Withholding Degree: WGU may withhold awarding a degree otherwise earned until the completion of the process
set forth in this Student Code of Conduct, including the completion of all sanctions imposed, if any.
Documentation of disciplinary expulsion, removal from an academic program, or revocation or withholding of a degree
are part of the Student’s permanent Academic Record. Documentation of other disciplinary sanctions shall not be part of
the Student’s permanent Education Record but shall become part of the Student’s Disciplinary Record. In situations
involving both an Accused Student and a Student claiming to be the victim of the Accused Student’s conduct, WGU
considers the records of the process and outcomes, if any, to be the education records of both the Accused Student(s)
and the Student(s) claiming to be the victim.
Administrative Holds: If a Student fails to respond to a complaint or complete sanctions as required, the Student Conduct
Office may place an administrative hold on the Student’s Academic Record to ensure cooperation with the disciplinary
process. In most cases, an administrative hold will not prevent a Student from completing coursework in the current term
but will prevent a Student from registering in additional courses, receiving transcripts, or obtaining a degree. Depending
on the severity of the charges, the Conduct Officer may also institute an administrative hold pending the outcome of
proceedings.
Interim Suspension: In certain circumstances, the Student Conduct Manager, or a designee, may impose a WGU
suspension prior to the Student Conduct Board hearing.
1. The Manager may impose interim suspension for the following reasons: (i) to ensure the safety and wellbeing of
members of the WGU Community or preservation of WGU property; (ii) to ensure the Accused Student’s physical
or emotional safety and wellbeing; or (iii) if the Accused Student poses an ongoing threat of disruption of, or
interference with, the normal operations of WGU.
2. As the Student Conduct Manager or the Student Conduct Officer may determine to be appropriate for the
purposes of investigation, an Accused Student may lose access to some or all WGU systems or privileges for
which the Accused Student might otherwise be eligible during the interim suspension.
3. If the Manager determines an interim suspension is appropriate, the interim suspension does not replace the
regular process, which shall proceed as outlined in this Student Code of Conduct, up to and through the Student
Conduct Board hearing.
Appeals: Students have limited right to appeal a decision reached by the Student Conduct Board. The Accused Student
or Complainant may appeal a decision reached by the Student Conduct Board or a sanction imposed by the Student
Conduct Officer to the Appellate Board, in writing, within five (5) business days of notification of the decision. The
appealing party shall deliver the appeal to the Student Conduct Officer or their designee.
1. Except as required to explain the basis of information a party discovered after the Conduct Board hearing, an
appeal is limited to a review of the record of the Student Conduct Board hearing and supporting documents for
one or more of the following purposes:
◦ To determine whether the Student Conduct Board hearing was conducted fairly. Consideration of fairness
shall include the following:
▪ The charges and the information presented to the Student Conduct Board.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 47
▪ The degree of conformance with prescribed procedures which allow the complaining party a
reasonable opportunity to prepare and present information that there was a violation of the Student
Code of Conduct while also allowing the Accused Student a reasonable opportunity to prepare and
present a response to those allegations. Note: Deviation from designated procedures is not a basis
for sustaining an appeal unless significant prejudice resulted from the deviation.
◦ To determine whether the decision reached regarding the Accused Student was based on substantial
information, that is, whether there were facts in the case that, if believed by the fact finder, were sufficient to
establish that a violation of the Student Code of Conduct occurred.
◦ To determine whether the sanction(s) imposed were appropriate for the violation(s) of the Student Code of
Conduct which the Student Conduct Board found the Accused Student to have committed.
◦ To consider new information sufficient to alter a decision or other relevant facts not brought out in the
original hearing because such information and/or facts were not known and were not discoverable by the
appealing party at the time of the original Student Conduct Board hearing.
2. If the Appellate Board grants an appeal, the matter shall return to the original Student Conduct Board and Student
Conduct Officer for reopening of Student Conduct Board hearing to allow reconsideration of the original
determination and/or sanction(s). If the Appellate Board denies an appeal, the decisions and any sanctions of the
Student Conduct Board hearing shall be final and binding on all parties.
Interpretation and Revision: For questions of interpretation or application of the Student Code of Conduct, the Student
Conduct Manager or their designee shall make a final determination.
• Under the direction and discretion of the Student Conduct Manager, WGU shall review the Student Code of
Conduct every two (2) years, or as needed. In the interim, WGU may amend the Code of Conduct at any time
upon appropriate notice to Students. Individuals may suggest revisions to the Student Conduct Officer which an
ad hoc panel, assigned by the Student Conduct Manager, will review, and consider.