
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 48
Standalone Courses and Certificates
In addition to degree programs, WGU offers single courses, course bundles, and certificates. For students that want to
try out online learning or start their educational journey with low cost and low risk, single courses are the perfect
launching pad for bachelor’s degree pursuit. Course bundles are thoughtfully curated groups of courses that allow
students to experience college coursework while exploring an area of interest. Certificate programs are designed to focus
on real-world skills that are in high demand. A professional certificate can help students enhance their resume by adding
powerful credentials that show they have the knowledge and skills employers are looking for.
At this time, federal financial aid is not available for standalone courses or certificate offerings.
Single Courses
• Academic Readiness for Nursing (ARN)
• Accounting Research and Critical Thinking (D252A)
• American Politics and the U.S. Constitution (C963A)
• Applied Algebra (C957A)
• Applied Probability and Statistics (C955A)
• Basic Skills for Educators (BSE)
• Corporate Taxation (D557A)
• Data Analytics for Accountants I (D552A)
• Data Analytics for Accountants II (D553A)
• English Composition I (ENG1)
• Ethics for Accountants (D550A)
• Ethics in Technology (D333A)
• Foundations of Coding (D615A)
• Foundations of Computer Science (D792A)
• Fraud and Forensic Accounting (D551A)
• Fundamentals for Success in Business (D072A)
• Fundamentals of Information Security (D430A)
• Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations (D388A)
• Global Arts and Humanities (D198A)
• Introduction to Biology (C190A)
• Introduction to Psychology (C180A)
• Introduction to Python Programming (D335A)
• Introduction to Sociology (C273A)
• IT and Tech Fundamentals (CTIAT)
• Learner Development and the Science of Learning (D665A)
• Learners and Learning Science (D664A)
• PACA: Introduction to Communications and Reflective Development (PACA101)
• Pass-Through Taxation (D558A)
• Precalculus (MAT201)
• Problem Solving with Artificial Intelligence (D685A)
• Project Management (C722A)
• Quantitative Literacy (D771A)
• Scripting and Programming Foundations (D278A)
• U.S. History (HIS101)
• Utah History (UTH)
Single courses cost $750 - $1,000 for two to three months of access, depending on the course. Courses offer 2 - 4
competency units and are stackable towards a relevant WGU bachelor’s degree program. Note: Standalone courses
have distinct course numbers differing from equivalent WGU degree program courses. For more information on single
courses, visit https://www.wgu.edu/academy/courses.html. Course descriptions are listed below in this section.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 49
Course Bundles
Students have the option to bundle some courses together during the enrollment process. Course bundles cost $1,500 -
$1,750 for three or four months of access, depending on the bundle, and consist of two courses (6 or 7 competency
units).
Certificates
• Accounting Fundamentals Certificate – $2,000
• Business Leadership Certificate – $1,125
• B2B Sales Fundamentals Certificate – $799
• Digital Marketing Fundamentals Certificate – $1,900
• Entrepreneurship Fundamentals Certificate – $1,500
• Management Skills for Supervisors Certificate – $1,200
• Project Management Certificate – $1,900
• Supply Chain Fundamentals Certificate – $2,500
• Nursing Leadership Certificate – $2,000
• AI Skills Fundamentals Certificate - $699
• Data Analytics Skills Certificate – $2,000
• Data Engineering Professional Certificate - $3,500
• Front-End Web Developer Certificate – $499
• Java Developer Certificate – $499
• ServiceNow Application Developer Certificate – $1,500
• Full Stack Engineering Certificates - $10,850
Certificates are 3 to 18 months in length and consist of between 5 and 44 competency units, depending on the certificate.
For more information on certificates, visit https://www.wgu.edu/academy/certificates.html. Standard paths for certificates
are listed at the end of the catalog on page 332.
The Full Stack Engineering Certificates include all courses included in the Front End Web Development, Back End Web
Development, and Web Application Deployment and Support certificates.
For success in the Full Stack Engineering Certificates it is strongly recommended students have experience in the
following areas:
• Experience with either Python or Java or another high-order OO (object-oriented) programming language along
with Git
• Experience with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
• Experience with a major DBMS (database management system) - MySQL (preferred), SQL Server, Oracle,
MariaDB, etc.
Course Descriptions
Academic Readiness for Nursing (ARN) - This course is designed to support students as they prepare for exams such as
the Test of Essential Academic Skills (TEAS) and the Health Education Systems, Inc. (HESI) assessment. Through
targeted review and practice, students strengthen their foundational knowledge in reading comprehension, language
usage, mathematics, and science—core areas essential for success in nursing programs and beyond.
Accounting Research and Critical Thinking (D252A) - Companies often rely on accountants to conduct research so they
can understand economic and financial conditions. This research enables accountants to gather and present information
to assist leaders in their decision-making processes. In this graduate-level course, students hone research application
skills by identifying accounting issues and researching concepts related to public accounting firms, businesses, and
regulating authorities. They develop analytical and critical-thinking capabilities and learn to apply their technical
knowledge of accounting theory to solve complex accounting problems. This expertise helps them become greater
assets in the accounting field.
Agile, Risk, and Leadership in Project Management (PM3) - In project management, change is constant. How a project
manager adapts to changes and resolves challenges is critical to driving projects to completion. In this course, students
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 50
focus on Agile practices that help project teams stay focused, remain flexible, and continuously improve. They learn how
to adapt under pressure, solve problems effectively, choose smart solutions, and lead through uncertainty. Students
examine risk management practices and how to plan for the unexpected while keeping the project on track. They also
develop essential leadership skills, including fostering team collaboration and practicing clear communication to ensure
stakeholders remain aligned and informed.
AI Skills Fundamentals Capstone (AIAPP) - In this course, students complete a project that uses AI to take innovative
and creative ideas to the next level. They apply the skills and knowledge gained from Problem-Solving with Artificial
Intelligence and Responsible Use of AI to this project. As the culmination of their learning, the capstone allows them to
design and propose AI solutions to enhance productivity and solve specific challenges in their workplace or within a
hypothetical organization. The project not only showcases their technical skills but also gives them the chance to critically
assess the ethical implications of AI recommendations.
American Politics and the U.S. Constitution (C963A) - American Politics and the U.S. Constitution examines the evolution
of representative government in the United States and the changing interpretations of the civil rights and civil liberties
protected by the Constitution. This course will give candidates an understanding of the powers of the branches of the
federal government, the continual tensions inherent in a federal system, the shifting relationship between state and
federal governments, and the interactions between elected officials and the ever-changing electorate. This course will
focus on such topics as the role of a free press in a democracy, the impact of changing demographics on American
politics, and the debates over and expansion of civil rights. Upon completion of the course, candidates should be able to
explain the basic functions of the federal government, describe the forces that shape American policy and politics, and be
better prepared to participate in America’s civic institutions.
Applied Algebra (C957A) - Applied Algebra is designed to help you develop competence in working with functions, the
algebra of functions, and using some applied properties of functions. You will start learning about how we can apply
different kinds of functions to relevant, real-life examples. From there, the algebra of several families of functions will be
explored, including linear, polynomial, exponential, and logistic functions. You will also learn about relevant, applicable
mathematical properties of each family of functions, including rate of change, concavity, maximizing/minimizing, and
asymptotes. These properties will be used to solve problems related to your major and make sense of everyday living
problems.
Applied Probability and Statistics (C955A) - Students who want to make reasoned, well-informed decisions might be
surprised to learn that using statistics and probability can be a key strategy. Scientists use statistical data to create new
medical treatments, and business leaders use probability to determine their next ventures. Probability and statistics also
affect choices in education, information technology, and entertainment. In this course, students will learn the basics of
algebra and graphing, descriptive statistics, regression and correlation, and probability. They will also explore how
researchers use statistical data. Along the way, students will gain knowledge and skills that help ensure they make well-
founded decisions in any career field.
Back-End Coding: Java and Job Readiness (CSBE) - The first thing we might notice when visiting a website or
application is its aesthetic and layout. But as we begin to navigate, we quickly discover that a site’s performance is as
important as how it looks. The purpose of back-end web development is to ensure that a website or application operates
efficiently beyond the appealing graphics and design. This is crucial for creating web applications that users can rely on
and trust. In this offering, students will explore Java programming for beginners. They will also work toward mastering
algorithms and data structures in Java.
Basic Skills for Educators (BSE) - Students who aspire to be teachers must attain basic skills in reading, writing, and
mathematics. In this course, students engage with these subjects and gain knowledge that helps prepare them to
become effective educators. They explore mathematical concepts, analytical reading, and essay writing. Along the way,
they encounter the same types of questions, problems, and passages that appear on standard exams required for
teacher licensure in many states.
Build Your Strategy (ESHIP2) - This interactive, project-based course gives aspiring entrepreneurs the tools and
strategies to confidently launch and grow a business. Students define their brand identity by creating a visual brand
board, writing a compelling brand story, and selecting key marketing channels to reach their target audience. They
sharpen their financial planning skills and reflect on the challenges of financial decision-making. In addition, students
explore how to choose the best legal structure for their business by evaluating factors like liability, ownership, taxes, and
scalability.
Building a B2B Sales Foundation (B2BS1) - Sales starts with mindfulness and attitude. In this course, students focus on
what they are feeling, controlling how they express themselves, and learning to channel their energy to become
successful sales professionals. The course discusses communication theory and active and empathetic
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 51
listening—essential skills for salespeople. It introduces the importance of self-confidence, which lays the foundation for
sales training.
Building and Inspiring Teams (FL1) - In this course, students develop practical skills in managing teams by focusing on
coaching, team building, and fostering an inclusive environment. Through formative role-play assessments and
summative team management exercises, students will practice giving feedback, conducting performance reviews, and
creating an inclusive culture that encourages growth and productivity.
B2B Relationship Management and Negotiation (B2BS3) - This course focuses specifically on business-to-business
sales. It emphasizes the importance of creating and maintaining long-term relationships. Students explore the use of
active and empathetic listening with their customers, and they discover the importance of solving problems, adding value,
and negotiating. In addition, students learn about research and analysis, leveraging AI when possible, to gather
information, ways to improve messaging, and how to identify resources. They are also introduced to the basics of project
management and customer relationship management systems.
B2B Sales Strategies (B2BS2) - As an introduction to sales training, this course focuses on the basics of sales, tailoring
content for technology, healthcare, and industrial manufacturing. Students explore sales approaches with specific
discussions of the Challenger, SPIN, and Sandler methodologies. They learn about networking and teamwork, and they
have the opportunity to apply the skills they have gained.
Corporate Taxation (D557A) - Corporations are required to pay taxes based on their profits, and these funds are used to
support government programs and services. The challenge for accountants is to ensure companies comply with the tax
laws while protecting their bottom line. In this graduate-level course, students explore federal income taxation of
corporations and their shareholders. They learn about the formation of the corporation, capital structure, operational
alternatives, distributions, partial and complete liquidations, personal holding companies, and the accumulated earnings
tax. In addition, they engage in real-life scenarios that enable them to apply course concepts. By completing this course,
students are better prepared to represent corporations and manage their tax obligations.
Data Analysis with SQL (DCADA) - In this course, students will learn to analyze and interpret data. They will develop a
fundamental understanding of structured query language (SQL) and use PostgreSQL to extract, join, aggregate, validate,
and clean data.
Data Analytics for Accountants I (D552A) - Why do accountants rely on data analytics? Understanding data allows them
to uncover valuable insights. These include identifying market behavior, detecting patterns in client spending, and
predicting trends. In this graduate-level course, students learn basic concepts and techniques used in the field of
accounting data analytics. They summarize data analysis definitions and models for the accounting field. In addition, they
explore data mining techniques and the extract-transform-load (ETL) process, ultimately creating a presentation from
accounting data results. This knowledge sets students up for data analytics expertise. This course is a prerequisite for
Data Analytics for Accountants II.
Data Analytics for Accountants II (D553A) - Can accountants predict the future? Not exactly, but those with data analytics
skills can anticipate financial needs. In this graduate-level course, students learn to analyze and present data to make
reliable forecasts and propose strategies. In this way, they are no longer limited to being the chroniclers of an
organization’s profits and expenses. Instead, they can leverage the power of data to predict the future and advise leaders
on appropriate actions. This course emphasizes auditing, managerial accounting, tax accounting, and financial reporting
as students complete a professional scenario that requires predictive analysis and a course-of-action presentation. In
addition, they explore content that appears in the data analysis portions of the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and
Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exams. Data Analytics for Accountants I is a prerequisite for this course.
Data Visualization (DCDV) - In this course, students explore how data is collected and sorted. They learn how to present
data and create reports using Power BI (business intelligence) and Tableau.
Decision Making for Team Leaders (FL3) - In this course, students develop the ability to make quick and effective
decisions in high-pressure situations. Through practical simulations and case-based problem-solving assessments,
students will enhance their decision-making and adaptability while managing day-to-day operations in a fast-paced
environment.
Define Your Business (ESHIP1) - With this hands-on, outcome-driven course designed for aspiring entrepreneurs and
innovators, students develop a comprehensive strategic business plan, building a strong foundation by defining their
business’s mission, as well as short- and long-term goals. Through practical market research, students identify their
target audience, perform in-depth competitor analysis, and produce an actionable market research brief that directly
informs business strategy. Leveraging the power of AI, students also maintain an AI-enhanced business planning journal,
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 52
tracking their use of AI tools for productivity and market analysis.
Digital Marketing Capstone (DMC) - Designed to bridge education and industry, this course connects students with actual
companies through Riipen, allowing them to work on live marketing projects that address current business challenges.
Students integrate core digital marketing competencies to develop targeted campaigns and deliver marketing assets.
They select projects aligned with their interests and career goals, then build a set of authentic marketing deliverables
while reflecting on the creative and strategic decisions made along the way.
Effective Communication for Team Leaders (FL2) - This course focuses on effective communication and emotional
intelligence, equipping students with the skills to manage conflicts and communicate clearly in challenging situations.
Students will pass through simulations and role-playing exercises that test their ability to resolve conflicts, listen actively,
and respond to emotional cues during team interactions.
English Composition I (ENG1) - This course is intended for learners who struggle with written communication or like to
write but want to improve. The course illustrates that anyone can become a good writer. But, just like anything that
requires practice, writing is a process. Learners will explore four distinct writing approaches: expressive, narrative,
interpretive, and argumentative. Using these approaches, they will develop writing skills that will benefit them in all
aspects of their lives.
Ethics for Accountants (D550A) - A trusted accountant has expertise in more than numbers and spreadsheets. For
accounting professionals to be steadfast and reliable, they must also be ethical. In this graduate-level course, students
examine the standards of professional conduct and business practices required for this field. They explore the necessity
of applying ethical principles in accounting services, tax preparation, and financial evaluation. In addition, they learn how
to apply ethical reasoning, professional skepticism, and ethical decision-making to situations involving corporate
governance and moral dilemmas. With this knowledge, students will be better prepared to employ ethical and objective
standards in their accounting careers.
Ethics in Technology (D333A) - Ethics in Technology examines the ethical considerations of technology use in the 21st
century and introduces students to a decision-making process informed by ethical frameworks. Students will study
specific cases related to important topics such as surveillance, social media, hacking, data manipulation, plagiarism and
piracy, artificial intelligence, responsible innovation, and the digital divide.
Find Your Inner Founder (ESHIP3) - This immersive course helps students discover their unique leadership style and
develop the emotional and strategic tools required to thrive as a founder. Designed for real-world entrepreneurial
readiness, the course focuses on communication, time management, emotional resilience, and team leadership—critical
skills for launching and leading a business. Students engage in leadership practice by recording and reflecting on real-
time feedback scenarios. They document meaningful community outreach and explore how authentic connection shapes
founder identity. By the end of the course, students have everything they need to launch their business and lead with a
sharpened entrepreneurial mindset.
Foundations of Coding (D615A) - Successful programmers know how to solve a puzzle. They have the curiosity and
foundational knowledge to write code for countless applications. For students ready to gain that expertise, this course will
introduce them to algorithmic thinking and how to apply it to everyday situations. They will explore key programming
concepts, including flow control, data types, and common data structures. They will also study the organization and
documentation of simple programs. As students progress in this course, they will learn about the major programming
language types and how to develop basic programs in Python. Along the way, they will discover key troubleshooting
strategies and develop a growth mindset so they can overcome any challenges they encounter.
Foundations of Computer Science (D792A) - People use computers every day. But how much do they know about their
design, development, and application? This course is for students who want to learn about computational systems and
how humans interact with them. By studying this material, they focus on the essential principles and practices of
computer science. They explore concepts such as designing basic computer programs, evaluating the efficiency of
algorithms, understanding operating systems, and using data profiling. This course thoroughly introduces the
fundamental aspects of computer science necessary for further study and practice in the discipline.
Fraud and Forensic Accounting (D551A) - Where there is money, there is always the risk of fraud, and forensic
accountants are charged with uncovering it. In this graduate-level course, students learn how fraud and forensic
investigations are part of the accounting profession. They explore the various types of fraud and their impact on
organizations. They discover the role that forensic accountants have in the legal system and the techniques they use in
financial investigations. Through scenarios and hands-on exercises, students gain practical experience in detecting,
investigating, and preventing fraud. This knowledge makes them even more valuable in the accounting field.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 53
Front-End Engineering: JavaScript and React (CSFE) - There is an art and science to front-end web development. A
skilled front-end web developer aims to craft a user interface that is accessible and effortless. The goal is to captivate
and delight the user, ensuring that they remain loyal and return to the website time and again. In this offering, students
will explore the fundamentals of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and so much more.
Fundamentals for Success in Business (D072A) - This introductory course provides students with an overview of the field
of business and a basic understanding of how management, organizational structure, communication, and leadership
styles affect the business environment. It also introduces them to some of the power skills that help make successful
business professionals, including time management, problem solving, emotional intelligence and innovation; while also
teaching them the importance of ethics. This course gives students an opportunity to begin to explore their own strengths
and passions in relation to the field while also acclimating them to the online competency-based environment.
Fundamentals of Information Security (D430A) - This course lays the foundation for understanding terminology,
principles, processes, and best practices of information security at local and global levels. It further provides an overview
of basic security vulnerabilities and countermeasures for protecting information assets through planning and
administrative controls within an organization.
Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations (D388A) - Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data
Presentations offers learners an overview of the use of spreadsheet functions and methods for presenting data within
spreadsheets. Learners will have the opportunity to explore features and uses of MS Excel and apply the tools to
situations they may encounter while studying in their program. They will also be introduced to real world uses and tools to
collect, organize and present data.
Global Arts and Humanities (D198A) - What makes us human? That is the question students will explore in this course
as they study the many facets of the arts and humanities, including literature, painting and sculpture, history, languages,
and philosophy. Students will also follow the creation and impact of music around the world. These aspects of our culture
are mirrors, reflecting who we are individually and collectively. By understanding the arts and humanities, students will
learn how people use these constructs to express themselves and communicate. In turn, they will discover the struggles
and triumphs we have all experienced. In addition, students will uncover what issues matter to us and how we are all
connected.
Introduction to Biology (C190A) - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching
theories of life from biological research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of
living organisms and their interaction with the environment. Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce
energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment to maintain internal stability; and
how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
Introduction to Psychology (C180A) - In this course, students will develop an understanding of psychology and how it
helps them better understand others and themselves. Students will learn general theories about psychological
development, the structure of the brain, and how psychologists study behavior. They will gain an understanding of both
normal and disordered psychological behaviors, as well as general applications of the science of psychology in society
(such as personality typing and counseling).
Introduction to Python Programming (D335A) - Python is a computer programming language created for various
purposes. It is often used to develop software and build websites. It is also employed to automate tasks and analyze
data. In fact, Python is all around us. Its technology enables movie streaming services to make recommendations. It
allows Google to find the information people search for. It can even help direct self-driving cars. By taking this course,
students gain skills in creating Python scripts with basic programming concepts. They learn to create control flow with
functions and loops. In addition, they discover how to implement code with packages, modules, and libraries.
Introduction to Sociology (C273A) - This course teaches students to think like sociologists, or, in other words, to see and
understand the hidden rules, or norms, by which people live, and how they free or restrain behavior. Students will learn
about socializing institutions, such as schools and families, as well as workplace organizations and governments.
Participants will also learn how people deviate from the rules by challenging norms and how such behavior may result in
social change, either on a large scale or within small groups.
IT and Tech Fundamentals (CTIAT) - In this course, students explore a diverse range of IT concepts and career paths,
from building computers and databases to computer programming. In addition, they learn about browsing the Internet
securely, creating networks, using common software applications, understanding external computer hardware, and
updating operating systems. By completing this course, students establish a solid tech-fluent foundation. This course
prepares them to take the CompTIA Tech+ certification exam, an industry standard that will enhance their career options
in numerous fields.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 54
Learner Development and the Science of Learning (D665A) - What are the best strategies for helping students learn? An
effective approach involves so much more than receiving information and memorizing facts. For real learning to occur, it
is critical to understand how students comprehend and retain information. In fact, there is a science to it! In this graduate-
level course, participants will explore how students’ brains work. They will discover how growth and development
influence learning, as well as the role that learning theories play in academic success. Along the way, they will gain
expertise in instructional techniques and how to apply those in the classroom.
Learners and Learning Science (D664A) - How do students learn? This is a key question aspiring educators will explore
in this undergraduate course. They will consider concepts related to learning environments and educational levels, from
early childhood through adolescence. As they study the material, they will encounter evidence-based practices and the
practical application of learning science principles. These can help equip their future students with strategies to enhance
learning outcomes and increase engagement. After completing this course, they will be empowered educators—ready to
create effective, inclusive, and engaging learning experiences for their students.
Mastering HubSpot - To be successful, digital marketers must effectively keep track of sales, service, web content,
operations, and other business essentials. HubSpot is a powerful software tool that can assist by providing all-in-one
solutions. In this course, students will learn about HubSpot and how to best utilize it. They will explore how this cloud-
based platform can sync and connect consumers, teams, and devices. They will discover the ways HubSpot can improve
business functions by tracking potential clients, managing emails and social media posts, hosting web pages, and
tracking customer service. Along the way, they will learn how the software analyzes campaign results and user behavior.
Mastering QuickBooks - Bookkeeping is the detailed art of recording all the financial transactions for a company. When
done well, this process helps a business track its progress and ultimately succeed. One essential tool is Intuit
QuickBooks. This software can help manage bookkeeping tasks, such as tracking income and expenses, managing
payroll, simplifying taxes, and accepting online payments. This course will show students how to properly use
QuickBooks Online. They will learn to create a QuickBooks Online account, customize settings, manage customers and
products, enter transactions, generate reports, and close books. They will discover tips, shortcuts, and best practices to
save time and become proficient in the use of this software.
Native Histories of the Pacific Northwest (D506A) - The history of the Pacific Northwest is rich in culture and tradition.
The lives of the early peoples helped shape this region and continue to influence it. In this undergraduate course,
students will explore the geographic, social, and economic development of the Pacific Northwest region of the United
States, with a particular emphasis on the Native population who were the region's first inhabitants. They will discover how
contact with European colonists disrupted tribal societies and how Native peoples resisted assimilation efforts. They will
also consider the continuing activism of Native communities in areas of civil and environmental rights.
Native Histories of the Pacific Northwest (D507A) - The first inhabitants of the Pacific Northwest have much to teach us.
Studying Native peoples’ history enhances our understanding of U.S. history. It helps us see the vital role Native peoples
played in our past and how they continue to impact our present. In this graduate-level course, students will explore the
long, early histories of the region’s diverse tribes. They will discover how the environment shaped their practices and
beliefs. In addition, they will learn about the challenges the Native peoples faced and how they have endured over the
centuries. This knowledge will help students become well-informed and better-prepared educators.
Nursing Leadership Capstone (NLC) - This course covers the foundational management skills nurses need to become an
effective healthcare leader. Those skills include time management, problem-solving, delegating, conflict resolution,
coaching, and accountability.
Pacific Northwest K-12 Integrated Methods (D461A) - A critical aspect of an enriched educational environment is
addressing the backgrounds and needs of all students. To that end, this undergraduate course was created to help future
educators integrate Native perspectives into their lessons, a requirement in Washington State public education. The
course material is derived from the Since Time Immemorial tribal sovereignty curriculum. Participants will study various
ways to incorporate its concepts into content areas, such as art and mathematics. They will also delve into cultural
intelligence and conscious collaboration as they learn to communicate and work with local Native tribes.
Pacific Northwest K-12 Integrated Methods and Curriculum (D462A) - In Washington State, teachers are required to
incorporate tribal history, culture, and tribal governments in public education. Beyond this requirement, including Native
perspectives in lessons can result in dynamic and engaging classrooms. This graduate-level course provides participants
with the knowledge and skills necessary to create learning activities that are aligned with state standards and integrate
curricula within various content areas. They will learn to design content-specific instruction based on the Since Time
Immemorial curriculum. Integrating curriculum in various content areas is a critical skill, and gaining this expertise will
lead to more enriched learning environments.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 55
PACA: Introduction to Communications and Reflective Development (PACA101) - In this course, learners will explore
interacting with others and managing conflict. This knowledge will help them build positive relationships at home, work,
and school. Throughout the course, learners will be encouraged to improve their communication and relationship
management skills. They will learn strategies for working on self-awareness, empathy, emotion management, and
thriving mindset. Having these skills will increase their chances of success in academics and in their careers.
Pass-Through Taxation (D558A) - Every business must pay taxes, but not every business is a huge corporation. Instead,
many are pass-through entities, such as partnerships, limited liability companies (LLCs), and S corporations. These
entities appear in almost all business sectors, and each offers unique features that provide advantages to specific
business situations. Since accountants may encounter all these entity types in their careers, this graduate-level course
explains the various taxation advantages and disadvantages, as well as specific rules and procedures. Using real-world
business scenarios, students gain practical knowledge that is vital for modern tax professionals.
Precalculus (MAT201) - Numeracy is the ability to understand and use numbers. In this course, learners will improve
their numeracy and their ability to perform four basic operations: addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. With
these operations, learners will use not only whole numbers, but also integers, fractions, decimals, variables, and
algebraic expressions. They will learn to use data, functions, and graphs to analyze information. Once learners are
comfortable with the concepts, they will apply them to solve real-world problems they might face at work or at home.
Problem Solving with Artificial Intelligence (D685A) - Technology is advancing faster than ever before, and one of the
most fascinating developments is artificial intelligence (AI). Understanding its purpose, functionality, and how to utilize it
is key to unlocking its true potential. In this course, students will explore the anatomy of a well-constructed prompt. They
will learn how to sharpen their ability to craft messages tailored to specific contexts and audiences. They will master the
nuance of language and analyze the images, texts, and tone of prompts with the goal of adjusting them to achieve
optimal results. No matter what their career field, this course will empower students to understand the ever-evolving
digital landscape and stay ahead of the AI curve.
Project Execution and Performance Management (PM2) - In this course, students focus on project execution plans and
performance evaluation. They learn how to structure a project schedule with task sequences, key milestones,
dependencies, and required resources. Students explore how to make projects financially sustainable by setting realistic
budgets, tracking spending, and preparing for unexpected costs. Then, they assess project quality by defining metrics,
using data to support decisions, selecting and managing vendors, monitoring results, and continuously improving
processes to meet quality standards.
Project Management (C722A) - Project Management prepares you to manage projects from start to finish within any
organization structure. The course represents a view into different project-management methods and delves into topics
such as project profiling and phases, constraints, building the project team, scheduling, and risk. You will be able to
grasp the full scope of projects you may work with on in the future, and apply proper management approaches to
complete a project. The course features practice in each of the project phases as you learn how to strategically apply
project-management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their goals.
Project Management Capstone (PM4) - In this course, students apply project management skills and knowledge to an
end-to-end project scenario. They select a real or hypothetical project and demonstrate their ability to manage it from
initiation to closure. Students showcase their skills in project planning, execution, and reflection. They articulate project
goals, develop planning documents, apply leadership and communication strategies, and complete a retrospective to
capture lessons learned. This approach challenges students to synthesize their understanding of project management
principles and practices, with an emphasis on real-world relevance, workplace readiness, and strategic thinking.
Project Planning and Strategy (PM1) - All successful projects start with a well-organized plan. In this course, students
focus on the fundamentals of effective project planning. Beginning with project charters, students learn how to combine
all parts of a project—goals, team input, timeline, scope, and communication—into one unified plan. Students discover
how to connect project goals with broader organizational objectives. They learn how to create a work breakdown
structure to outline how tasks will be completed and tracked. Finally, students explore the importance of a project
schedule and stakeholder engagement strategy, one that keeps key players informed about and engaged in key
milestones and project timelines.
Quantitative Literacy (D771A) - Students in this course learn to use quantitative literacy to view real-world problems
through the lens of quantitative reasoning. They discover how to apply quantitative concepts to financial questions and
other matters. They also employ the principles of geometry and algebra to assess real-life scenarios. By engaging with
mathematical concepts for modeling and understanding everyday problems, students come to perceive math as a useful
and relevant tool for a variety of situations.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 56
Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence (AIRU) - In today’s world, we encounter artificial intelligence (AI)
everywhere—including online, in the media, and in the workplace. From ChatGPT to self-driving cars, from smart home
assistants to facial recognition on our smartphones, AI is increasingly being integrated into our daily lives. This course
addresses the ethical issues of AI and guides students in understanding how this evolving technology can be used
efficiently but wisely.
ServiceNow Application Developer - As technology rapidly evolves, the demand for straightforward, intuitive software
programs and applications grows alongside it. However, creating these programs and apps the traditional way calls for a
deep understanding of coding languages and advanced IT skills, which may not be practical in such a fast-paced and
ever-changing environment. That’s why developing applications through a more accessible Low-Code Application
Platform like ServiceNow is vital. This platform provides ways to create sophisticated and user-friendly applications
without requiring an advanced coding or IT background. In this course, students will implement user-centered solutions
from multiple perspectives. They will use the Flow Designer platform to automate real-world processes and develop a
custom application with an emphasis on user experience.
Scripting and Programming Foundations (D278A) - Scripting and Programming Foundations introduces programming
basics such as variables, data types, flow control, and design concepts. The course is language-agnostic in nature,
ending in a survey of languages, and introduces the distinction between interpreted and compiled languages. Learners
will gain skills in identifying scripts for computer program requirements and in using fundamental programming elements
as part of common computer programming tasks. Learners will also gain an understanding of the logic and outcome of
simple algorithms.
U.S. History (HIS101) - Studying history can be like traveling across time and space. This is true even when learners
study the history of their own country. In this course, learners will delve into the history of the United States from its
earliest beginnings to the late 20th century. They will realize that to appreciate history, they must be able to relate to the
people who lived in earlier times. They need to examine the decisions that historical figures made, what their daily lives
were like, and what relationships they had. They will also come to understand how history repeats itself.
Utah History (UTH) - In this graduate-level course, students explore Utah’s unique geographic regions, learning how they
influenced human history and the environment. They discover how Utah’s earliest human inhabitants relied on innovative
survival strategies and developed profound connections to the land. In addition, they study the various phases of
exploration, colonization, and development. They learn how these eras affected Indigenous populations and how Utah’s
social, economic, and political landscape transformed over the centuries. This knowledge prepares education students
for teaching Utah history and creating effective lesson plans.