
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 248
Courses
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Course-Descriptions-and-Course-of-Study/ta-p/38923
AFT2 - Accreditation Audit - Accreditation Audit covers regulatory audits, resource assessment, quality improvement, patient care improvement,
organization plans, risk management, effective interaction, and compliance as evidenced during an accreditation audit.
AIT2 - Organic Chemistry - Organic Chemistry focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize and
group organic compounds in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity based on common bonds found within an organic compound.
AMT2 - Service Line Development - Service Line Development will address how to critically assess the competitive marketplace as well as the internal
environment to establish a new line of business. Topics include needs assessment, international healthcare trends, service line management, revenue
analysis, costs and productivity, communication, negotiation, health policy, health legislation, and facilities management, which are variables in the
evaluation process.
AOA2 - Number Sense and Functions - Number Sense and Functions is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work.
This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as number
sense, patterns and functions, integers and order of operations, fractions, decimals, and percentages.
ASA1 - Assessment Theory and Practice - Assessment Theory and Practice focuses on issues central to assessment in the ELL environment,
including high-stakes testing, standardized tests, placement and exit assessment, formative and summative assessments, and making adaptations in
assessments to meet the needs of ELL students.
AUA2 - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities is a performance-
based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original
lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as coordinate pairs and graphing, ratios and proportional reasoning, and equations and
inequalities.
AVA2 - Geometry and Statistics - Geometry and Statistics is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This
portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as geometry and
measurement, statistics and probability.
BVT2 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics, reaction
kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BWT2 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the properties
and behavior of any compound, avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry: the
structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BYT2 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BZT2 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics. Students will study
basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light with even further applications to optical instruments. This course will
also cover thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
C100 - Introduction to Humanities - This introductory humanities course allows candidates to practice essential writing, communication, and critical
thinking skills necessary to engage in civic and professional interactions as mature, informed adults. Whether through studying literature, visual and
performing arts, or philosophy, all humanities courses stress the need to form reasoned, analytical, and articulate responses to cultural and creative
works. Studying a wide variety of creative works allows candidates to more effectively enter the global community with a broad and enlightened
perspective.
C121 - Survey of United States History - This course presents a broad and thematic survey of U.S. history from European colonization to the mid-
twentieth century. Students will explore how historical events and major themes in American history have affected a diverse population.
C165 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical, everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
C168 - Critical Thinking and Logic - Reasoning and Problem Solving helps candidates internalize a systematic process for exploring issues that takes
them beyond an unexamined point of view and encourages them to become more self-aware thinkers by applying principles of problem identification
and clarification, planning and information gathering, identifying assumptions and values, analyzing and interpreting information and data, reaching
well-founded conclusions, and identifying the role of critical thinking in disciplines and professions.
C172 - Network and Security - Foundations - Network and Security - Foundations introduces students to the components of a computer network and
the concept and role of communication protocols. The course covers widely used categorical classifications of networks (e.g., LAN, MAN, WAN,
WLAN, PAN, SAN, CAN, and VPN) as well as network topologies, physical devices, and layered abstraction. The course also introduces students to
basic concepts of security, covering vulnerabilities of networks and mitigation techniques, security of physical media, and security policies and
procedures. This course has no prerequisites.
C175 - Data Management - Foundations - This course introduces students to the concepts and terminology used in the field of data management.
Students will be introduced to Structured Query Language (SQL) and will learn how to use Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation
Language (DML) commands to define, retrieve, and manipulate data. This course covers differentiations of data—structured vs. unstructured and
quasi-structured (relational, hierarchical, XML, textual, visual, etc); it also covers aspects of data management (quality, policy, storage methodologies).
Foundational concepts of data security are included.
C179 - Business of IT - Applications - This course introduces IT students to information systems (IS). The course includes important topics related to
the management of information systems (MIS), such as system development and business continuity. The course also provides an overview of
management tools and issue tracking systems.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 249
C180 - Introduction to Psychology - In this course, students will develop an understanding of psychology and how it helps them better understand
others and themselves. Students will learn general theories about psychological development, the structure of the brain, and how psychologists study
behavior. They will gain an understanding of both normal and disordered psychological behaviors, as well as general applications of the science of
psychology in society (such as personality typing and counseling).
C182 - Introduction to IT - Introduction to IT examines information technology as a discipline and the various roles and functions of the IT department
as business support. Students are presented with various IT disciplines including systems and services, network and security, scripting and
programming, data management, and business of IT, with a survey of technologies in every area and how they relate to each other and to the
business.
C190 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological
research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment.
Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment
to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C200 - Managing Organizations and Leading People - This course covers principles of effective management and leadership that maximize
organizational performance. The following topics are included: the role and functions of a manager, analysis of personal leadership styles, approaches
to self-awareness and self-assessment, and application of foundational leadership and management skills.
C201 - Business Acumen - The Business Acumen course introduces you to the operation of the business enterprise and the role of management in
directing the activities of the business. You will examine the roles of management in the context of business functions such as marketing, operations,
accounting, and finance.
C202 - Managing Human Capital - This course focuses on strategies and tools that managers use to maximize employee contribution and create
organizational excellence. You will learn talent management strategies to motivate and develop employees as well as best practices to manage
performance for added value.
C203 - Becoming an Effective Leader - This course explores major theories and approaches to leadership, leadership style evaluation, and personal
leadership development while focusing on motivation, development, and achievement of others. You will learn how to influence followers, manage
organizational culture, and enhance your effectiveness as a leader.
C204 - Management Communication - This course prepares students for the communication challenges in organizations. Topics examined include
theories and strategies of communication, persuasion, conflict management, and ethics that enhance communication to various audiences.
C205 - Leading Teams - This course helps students establish team objectives, align the team purpose with organizational goals, build credibility and
trust, and develop the talents of individuals to enhance team performance.
C206 - Ethical Leadership - This course examines the ethical issues and dilemmas managers face. This course provides a framework for analysis of
management-related ethical issues and decision-making action required for satisfactory resolution of these issues.
C207 - Data-Driven Decision Making - This course presents critical problem-solving methodologies, including field research and data collection
methods that enhance organizational performance. Topics include quantitative analysis, statistical and quality tools. You will improve your ability to use
data to make informed decisions.
C208 - Change Management and Innovation - This course provides an overview of change theories and innovation practices. This course will
emphasize the role of leadership in influencing and managing change in response to challenges and opportunities facing organizations.
C209 - Strategic Management - This course focuses on models and practices of strategic management including developing and implementing both
short- and long-term strategy and evaluating performance to achieve strategic goals and objectives.
C210 - Management and Leadership Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MSML curriculum that provides an integrative
experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from previously completed
coursework and demonstrate an understanding of management and leadership development and practices.
C211 - Global Economics for Managers - This course examines how economic tools, techniques, and indicators can be used for solving organizational
problems related to competitiveness, productivity, and growth. You will explore the management implications of a variety of economic concepts and
effective strategies to make decisions within a global context.
C212 - Marketing - Marketing Fundamentals introduces students to principles of the marketing environment, social media, consumer behavior,
marketing research, and market segmentation. Students will also explore marketing strategies that are related to products and services, distribution
channels, promotions, sales, and pricing.
C213 - Accounting for Decision Makers - This course provides you with the accounting knowledge and skills to assess and manage a business. Topics
include the accounting cycle, financial statements, taxes, and budgeting. This course will improve students’ ability to understand reports and use
accounting information to plan and make sound business decisions.
C214 - Financial Management - This course covers practical approaches to analysis and decision-making in the administration of corporate funds,
including capital budgeting, working capital management, and cost of capital. Topics include financial planning, management of working capital,
analysis of investment opportunities, sources of long-term financing, government regulations, and global influences. This course will improve students’
ability to interpret financial statements and manage corporate finances.
C215 - Operations Management - This course focuses on the strategic importance of operations management to overall performance. This course also
emphasizes principles of supply chain management relevant to a variety of business operations ranging from manufacturing goods to retail services.
You will examine the various planning, control, and decision-making tools and techniques of the operations function.
C216 - MBA Capstone - MBA Capstone is the culminating course in the MBA program that provides an integrative experience with all competencies
and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from previously completed coursework and demonstrate an
understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This course promotes a meaningful connection between the academic
work and career experience.
C218 - MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone - MBA Information Technology Management Capstone is the culminating course in the
MBA ITM program that provides an integrative experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize
concepts from previously completed coursework and demonstrate an understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This
course promotes a meaningful connection between the academic work and career experience.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 250
C219 - MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone - MBA Healthcare Management Capstone is the culminating course in the MBA HCM program that
provides an integrative experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from
previously completed coursework and demonstrate an understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This course
promotes a meaningful connection between the academic work and career experience.
C224 - Research Foundations - The Research Foundations course focuses on the essential concepts in educational research, including quantitative,
qualitative, mixed, and action research. This course also teaches students concepts about measurement and assessment, as well as strategies for
obtaining warranted research results.
C225 - Research Questions and Literature Review - The Research Questions and Literature Reviews course focuses on how to conduct a thorough
literature review that addresses and identifies important educational research topics, problems, and questions, and helps determine the appropriate
kind of research and data needed to answer one's research questions and hypotheses. Research Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
C226 - Research Design and Analysis - The Research Design and Analysis course focuses on applying strategies for effective design of empirical
research studies. Particular emphasis is placed on selecting or constructing the design that will provide the most valid results, analyzing the kind of
data that would be obtained, and making defensible interpretations and drawing appropriate conclusions based on the data. Research Questions and
Literature Review is a prerequisite for this course.
C227 - Research Proposals - Research Proposals focuses on planning and writing a well-organized and complete research proposal. The relationship
of the sections in a research proposal to the sections in a research report will be highlighted. Research Design and Analysis is a prerequisite for this
course.
C232 - Introduction to Human Resource Management - This course provides an introduction to the management of human resources, the function
within an organization that focuses on recruitment, management, and direction for the people who work in the organization. Students will be introduced
to topics such as strategic workforce planning and employment; compensation and benefits; training and development; employee and labor relations;
and occupational health, safety, and security.
C233 - Employment Law - This course reviews the legal and regulatory framework surrounding employment, including recruitment, termination, and
discrimination law. The course topics include employment-at-will, EEO, ADA, OSHA, and other laws affecting the workplace. This course covers how
to analyze current trends and issues in employment law and apply this knowledge to manage risk effectively in the employment relationship.
C234 - Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection - This course focuses on building a highly skilled workforce by using effective strategies and
tactics for recruiting, selecting, hiring, and retaining employees.
C236 - Compensation and Benefits - Compensation and Benefits develops competence in the design and implementation of compensation and
benefits systems in an organization. The total rewards perspective integrates tangible rewards (e.g., salary, bonuses) with employee benefits (e.g.,
health insurance, retirement plan) and intangible rewards (e.g., location, work environment). This perspective allows students to use all forms of
rewards fairly and effectively to enable job satisfaction and organizational performance. There are no prerequisites.
C237 - Taxation I - This course focuses on the taxation of individuals. It provides an overview of income taxes of both individuals and business entities
in order to enhance awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure and analyze the effect of various tax options. The course
will introduce taxation of sole proprietorships. Students will learn principles of individual taxation and how to develop effective personal tax strategies
for individuals. Students will also be introduced to tax research of complex taxation issues.
C266 - The Ocean Systems - This course investigates the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere, biosphere,
geosphere, hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include the origins of Earth’s oceans and the early history of life; physical characteristics and
geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water and how ocean surface currents and deep
circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the effects of human
activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C267 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change and covers how the climate system works; what factors cause climate to
change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models, observations, and
theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course explores evidence for
changes in ocean temperature, sea level, and acidity due to global warming. It covers how climate change today is different from past climate cycles
and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course looks at the connection between
human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic, and environmental consequences of climate
change.
C268 - Spreadsheets - The Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to analyze business problems. Students
will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business/accounting applications (e.g., using essential spreadsheet
functions, formulas, charts, etc.)
C273 - Introduction to Sociology - This course teaches students to think like sociologists, or, in other words, to see and understand the hidden rules, or
norms, by which people live, and how they free or restrain behavior. Students will learn about socializing institutions, such as schools and families, as
well as workplace organizations and governments. Participants will also learn how people deviate from the rules by challenging norms and how such
behavior may result in social change, either on a large scale or within small groups.
C277 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of operations;
ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets of real
numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, and trees and networks. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C278 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include: real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C360 - Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned during
your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of your
content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C363 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply differential
calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration; optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's rule. Precalculus is a prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 251
C389 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. A humanistic and social endeavor, science serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for observing,
questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain the nature
and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations, make
decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C455 - English Composition I - English Composition I introduces candidates to the types of writing and thinking that are valued in college and beyond.
Candidates will practice writing in several genres with emphasis placed on writing and revising academic arguments. Instruction and exercises in
grammar, mechanics, research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as necessary.
Composition I is a foundational course designed to help candidates prepare for success at the college level. There are no prerequisites for English
Composition I.
C456 - English Composition II - English Composition II introduces candidates to the types of research and writing that are valued in college and
beyond. Candidates will practice writing, with emphasis placed on research, writing, and revising an academic argument. Instruction and exercises in
grammar, mechanics, research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as necessary.
Composition II is a foundational course designed to help candidates prepare for success at the college level. Composition I is the prerequisite for
Composition II.
C458 - Health, Fitness, and Wellness - Health, Fitness, and Wellness focuses on the importance and foundations of good health and physical
fitness—particularly for children and adolescents—addressing health, nutrition, fitness, and substance use and abuse.
C464 - Introduction to Communication - This introductory communication course allows candidates to become familiar with the fundamental
communication theories and practices necessary to engage in healthy professional and personal relationships. Candidates will survey human
communication on multiple levels and critically apply the theoretical grounding of the course to interpersonal, intercultural, small group, and public
presentational contexts. The course also encourages candidates to consider the influence of language, perception, culture, and media on their daily
communicative interactions. In addition to theory, candidates will engage in the application of effective communication skills through systematically
preparing and delivering an oral presentation. By practicing these fundamental skills in human communication, candidates become more competent
communicators as they develop more flexible, useful, and discriminatory communicative practices in a variety of contexts. Note: There are references
within this video to Taskstream. If Taskstream is not part of your student experience, please disregard, and locate your task(s) within your course.
C483 - Principles of Management - Principles of Management provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of management and its
context within the business environment. Students of this course build on previously mastered competencies by taking a more in-depth look at
management as a discipline and how it differs from leadership while further exploring the importance of communication within business. This course
provides students with a business generalist overview in the areas of strategic planning, total quality, entrepreneurship, conflict and change, human
resource management, diversity, and organizational structure.
C484 - Organizational Behavior and Leadership - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse
business environments. The course requires students to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management
strategies in a series of scenario-based problems.
C494 - Advanced Standing for RN License - Advanced Standing for RN License
C498 - MS, Information Technology Management Capstone - MSITM Capstone course challenges students to demonstrate mastery of all the MSITM
program outcomes. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project.
C612 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful secondary mathematics teachers. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, Pre-
Calculus, Calculus I, and Calculus II. Linear Algebra, and Calculus III are recommended.
C613 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Middle School Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and
integrate the mathematics content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful middle school mathematics teachers. A high level of
mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College
Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and Pre-Calculus.
C614 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student’s conceptual understanding of a broad range of biology topics.
High school biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. This course starts with macromolecules that make up
cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist. Connections are then made between
genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ systems and their role in maintaining
homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and the effect humans have on the environment.
C615 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include nature and impact of science and engineering, principle and models of matter and energy,
mechanics, electricity and magnetism, waves, and science teaching and pedagogy.
C616 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle-level science teacher is expected to
know and understand. Topics include scientific methodologies, history of science, basic science principles, physical sciences, life sciences, earth and
space sciences, and the role of science and technology and their impact on society.
C617 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - Chemistry: Content Knowledge provides advanced instruction in the main areas of chemistry for which
secondary chemistry teachers are expected to demonstrate competency. Topics include matter and energy, thermochemistry, structure, bonding,
reactivity, biochemistry and organic chemistry, solutions, the nature of science and technology, mathematics, and laboratory procedures.
C618 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary earth science teacher is expected
to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of earth and space sciences, tectonics and internal earth processes, earth materials
and surface processes, history of the Earth and its life-forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphere, and astronomy.
C625 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application and the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how it is applied. This
course will help students gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. Students will see the importance of this
subject matter to health.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 252
C635 - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone Written Project takes the student through the steps
of planning and conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. The result is expected to be a significant piece of
research, culminating in a written research report, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and reporting of
results. Prerequisite Courses: Research Foundations (C224), Research Questions and Literature Review (C225), Research Design and Analysis
(C226), and Research Proposals (C227) or permission of a faculty manager. Additionally, students wishing to add the Capstone with fewer than eight
weeks remaining in the term must receive permission of the faculty manager.
C647 - Trigonometry and Precalculus - Trigonometry and Precalculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex
numbers, systems of equations, vectors and matrices, and sequences and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life
problems. Topics include degrees; radians and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming
trigonometric functions and their inverses; solving trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar
approaches to complex numbers; DeMoivre's Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations;
systems of inequalities; and arithmetic and geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
C650 - Geology I: Physical - Geology I: Physical provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary science
education with an introduction to minerals and rocks, the physical features of the Earth, and the internal and surface processes that shape those
features. This course has no prerequisites.
C653 - Heredity and Genetics - Heredity and Genetics is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or
students earning their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the
function of molecular genetics. Topics include Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance and population genetics. This course has no prerequisites.
C655 - Zoology - Zoology provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or their MA degree in secondary science education with
an introduction to the field of zoology. Zoology includes the study of major animal phyla emphasizing characteristics, variations in anatomy, life cycles,
adaptations, and relationships among the animal kingdom. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C657 - Calculus III - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and skills necessary
to apply calculus of multiple variables while using the appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include: infinite series and
convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating), power series,taylor polynomials, vectors, lines and planes in three dimensions,
dot and cross products, multivariable functions, limits, and continuity, partial derivatives, directional derivatives, gradients, tangent planes, normal lines,
and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
C659 - Conceptual Physics - Conceptual Physics provides a broad, conceptual overview of the main principles of physics, including mechanics,
thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and electricity and magnetism. Problem-solving activities and laboratory experiments provide
students with opportunities to apply these main principles, creating a strong foundation for future studies in physics. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
C670 - Concepts in Science - Concepts in Science for graduates provides already-licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
science education with an introduction to essential science themes present within and across all science disciplines, including chemistry, physics,
biology, and the geosciences. These themes include comprehending the magnitude of the physical and natural world, analyzing and converting
measurements, understanding the basic nature and behavior of matter and energy, examining atomic structure, identifying and naming basic types of
chemical bonds, and analyzing and interpreting scientific data. Concepts in Science provides a solid foundation for future, in-depth, scientific studies
and should be taken prior to any other science content course. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C672 - General Chemistry I with Lab - General Chemistry I with Lab for graduates provides an introduction to the field of chemistry to already-licensed
teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in secondary chemistry. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the
electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules,
balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of
laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science is a prerequisite for this course.
C673 - General Chemistry II with Lab - General Chemistry II with Lab for graduates continues the study of general chemistry for already-licensed
teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in secondary chemistry. Building on the topics covered in General Chemistry I, General
Chemistry II examines the behavior of gases and solutions, reaction rates and equilibrium, acids and bases, and oxidation-reduction reactions. Also,
this course provides an introduction to three subdisciplines of chemistry: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and nuclear chemistry. Laboratory
experiences reinforce the essential skills required for conducting successful scientific investigations. C672: General Chemistry I for graduates is a
prerequisite for this course.
C683 - Natural Science Lab - This course provides students an introduction to using the scientific method and engaging in scientific research to reach
conclusions about the natural world. Students will design and carry out an experiment to investigate a hypothesis by gathering quantitative data. They
will also research a specific ecosystem using academic sources and draw conclusions from their findings.
C715 - Organizational Behavior - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse business
environments. Students are asked to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management strategies in a series of
scenario-based problems.
C716 - Business Communication - Business Communication is a survey course of communication skills needed in the business environment. Course
content includes writing messages, reports, and résumés and delivering oral presentations. The course emphasizes communication processes, writing
skills, message types, and presentation of data. The development of these skills is integrated with the use of technology.
C717 - Business Ethics - Business Ethics is designed to enable students to identify the ethical and socially responsible courses of action available
through the exploration of various scenarios in business. Students will also learn to develop appropriate ethics guidelines for a business. This course
has no prerequisites.
C720 - Operations and Supply Chain Management - Operations and Supply Chain Management provides a streamlined introduction to how
organizations efficiently produce goods and services, determine supply chain management strategies, and measure performance. Emphasis is placed
on integrative topics essential for managers in all disciplines, such as supply chain management, product development, and capacity planning. This
course guides students in analyzing processes, managing quality for both services and products, and measuring performance while creating value
along the supply chain in a global environment. Topics include forecasting, product and service design, process design and location analysis, capacity
planning, management of quality and quality control, inventory management, scheduling, supply chain management, and performance measurement.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 253
C721 - Change Management - Change Management provides an understanding of change and an overview of successfully managing change using
various methods and tools. Emphasizing change theories and various best practices, this course covers how to recognize and implement change
using an array of other effective strategies, including those related to innovation and leadership. Other topics include approaches to change,
diagnosing and planning for change, implementing change, and sustaining change.
C722 - Project Management - Project Management prepares you to manage projects from start to finish within any organization structure. The course
represents a view into different project-management methods and delves into topics such as project profiling and phases, constraints, building the
project team, scheduling, and risk. You will be able to grasp the full scope of projects you may work with on in the future, and apply proper
management approaches to complete a project. The course features practice in each of the project phases as you learn how to strategically apply
project-management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their goals.
C723 - Quantitative Analysis For Business - Quantitative Analysis for Business explores various decision-making models, including expected value
models, linear programming models, and inventory models. This course helps student learn to analyze data by using a variety of analytic tools and
techniques to make better business decisions. In addition, it covers developing project schedules using the Critical Path Method. Other topics include
calculating and evaluating formulas, measures of uncertainty, crash costs, and visual representation of decision-making models using electronic
spreadsheets and graphs. This course has no prerequisites.
C724 - Information Systems Management - Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of information systems applicable
to business. The course explores the importance of viewing information technology (IT) as an organizational resource that must be managed, so that it
supports or enables organizational strategy.
C737 - Evolution - This course addresses why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances
in medicine, public health, and conservation. This course helps participants gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution including
the process of speciation and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. This course also explore how new
ideas, discoveries, and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we
know what we know.
C739 - Space, Time and Motion - This course begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers on
to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton, and Albert Einstein. Einstein’s work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of motion,
time, space, matter, and energy. The course considers Einstein’s special theory of relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his general
theory of relativity and its implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks at
Einstein as a social and political figure and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and
web resources enable learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars,
black holes, the Big Bang, and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C769 - IT Capstone Written Project - The capstone project consists of a technical work proposal, the proposal’s implementation, and a post-
implementation report that describes the graduate’s experience in developing and implementing the capstone project. The capstone project should be
presented and approved by the course instructor in relation to the graduate’s technical emphasis.
C773 - User Interface Design - This course covers tools and techniques employed in user interface design, including web and mobile applications.
Concepts of clarity, usability, and detectability are included in this course, as well as other design elements such as color schemes, typography, and
layout. Techniques like wireframing, usability testing, and SEO optimization are also covered.
C777 - Web Development Applications - This course builds upon a student's manual coding skills by teaching how to develop web documents and
pages using the web development trifecta: Hypertext Markup Language version 5 (HTML5), Cascading Style Sheets version 3 (CSS3), and JavaScript.
Students will utilize the skills learned in this course to create web documents and pages that easily adapt to display on both traditional and mobile
devices. In addition, students will learn techniques for code validation and testing, form creation, inline form field validation, and mobile design for
browsers and apps, including Responsive Web Design (RWD).
C783 - Project Management - Project Management is a thorough exploration of the inputs, tools, techniques, and outputs across the Project
Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK). The essential concepts and practical scenarios included enable students to build the competencies of an
effective project manager. There is no prerequisite for this course.
C784 - Applied Healthcare Statistics - Applied Healthcare Probability and Statistics is designed to help develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic mathematics, introductory algebra, and statistics and probability. These concepts include basic arithmetic with fractions and signed
numbers; introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical data and probability are now
commonplace in the healthcare field. This course will help candidates make informed decisions about which studies and results are valid, which are
not, and how those results affect your decisions. This course will give candidates background in what constitutes sound research design and how to
appropriately model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, this course guides candidates in calculating simple probabilities based on events
which occur in the healthcare profession. This course will prepare candidates for studies at WGU, as well as in the healthcare profession.
C790 - Foundations in Nursing Informatics - This course addresses the integration of technology to improve and support nursing practice. It provides
nurses with a foundational understanding of nursing informatics theory, practice, and applications. Topics include the role of nursing in informatics; use
of computer technology for clinical documentation, communication, and workflows; problem identification; project implementation; and best practices.
C792 - Data Modeling and Database Management Systems - This graduate course is designed to engage the student in planning, analyzing, and
designing a relational database management system (DBMS) for use by nurse administrators, clinicians, educators, and informaticists. This
experience will provide the knowledge needed to advocate for nursing informatics needs within the field of healthcare.
C797 - Data Science and Analytics - This course addresses the interdisciplinary and emerging field of data science in healthcare. Candidates learn to
combine tools and techniques from statistics, computer science, data visualization, and the social sciences to solve problems using data. Topics
include data analysis; database management; inferential and descriptive statistics; statistical inference; and process improvement.
C798 - Informatics System Analysis and Design - In Informatics System Analysis and Design, a broad understanding of data systems is covered to
build upon the Foundations in Nursing Informatics course. The importance of effective interoperability, functionality, data access, and user satisfaction
are addressed. The student will be analyzing reports and integrating federal regulations, research principles, and principles of environmental health in
the construction of a real-world systems analysis and design project. This course will be directly applicable to healthcare settings as electronic records
management has become compulsory for healthcare providers. All of the information in this course will be directly tied to the delivery of quality patient
care and patient safety. Foundations in Nursing Informatics is recommended as a prerequisite.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 254
C801 - Health Information Law and Regulations - Health Information Law and Regulations prepares students to manage health information in
compliance with legal guidelines and teaches how to respond to questions and challenges when legal issues occur. This course presents the types of
situations occurring in health information management that could result in ethical dilemmas and establishes a foundation for work based on legal and
ethical guidelines.
C802 - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management applies theories from business, IT,
management, medicine, and consumer-centered healthcare skills. Students will learn to evaluate and analyze health information systems for
implementation in health information management. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C803 - Data Analytics and Information Governance - Data Analytics and Information Governance explores the structure, methods, and approaches for
using health information in the healthcare industry. By focusing on quality data collection, analytics, and industry regulations, students will examine
tools that ensure quality data collection as well as to use data to improve quality of care. This course has no prerequisites.
C804 - Medical Terminology - Medical Terminology focuses on the basic components of medical terminology and how terminology is used when
discussing various body structures and systems. Proper use of medical terminology is critical for accurate and clear communication among medical
staff, health professionals, and patients. In addition to the systems of the body, this course will discuss immunity, infections, mental health, and cancer.
C805 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is an overview of the pathology and treatment of diseases in the human body and its systems. This course
will explain the processes in the body that result in the signs and symptoms of disease, as well as therapeutic procedures in managing or curing the
disease. The content draws on a knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand how diseases manifest themselves and how they affect the
body.
C807 - Healthcare Compliance - Healthcare Compliance examines the role of the coding professional within healthcare information management. The
course covers compliance plans, issues that arise with noncompliance, and management of internal and external audits.
C808 - Classification Systems - Classification Systems provides a comprehensive approach to learning about medical coding classification, coding
audits, and quality standards. Candidates will be exposed to electronic health record systems and leadership principles as they relate to management
of ICD and CPT codes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C810 - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management introduces students to the concepts and
terminology used in health data and health information management. This course teaches students how to apply data management and governance
principles in the healthcare environment. The student will learn about electronic health records (EHR), legal considerations, information governance,
data management, health information management (HIM), and secondary data sources. In addition to the e-text and numerous additional articles and
video resources, the student will engage with case studies and knowledge checks to assist with learning. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C811 - Healthcare Financial Resource Management - Healthcare Financial Resource Management examines financial practices within healthcare
industries to promote effective management at department and organization levels. Focusing on financial processes associated with facility operations
in the healthcare field, this course will analyze the impact of strategic financial planning and regulatory control processes. This course has no
prerequisites.
C812 - Healthcare Reimbursement - Healthcare Reimbursement explores financial practices within the healthcare industry as they relate to
reimbursement policies. This course identifies how reimbursement systems impact the revenue cycle and a health information manager's role. This
course has no prerequisites.
C813 - Healthcare Statistics and Research - Healthcare Statistics and Research explores the use of statistical data to support process improvement
through health information research. Health information management (HIM) professionals use information systems to gather, analyze, and present
data in response to administrative and clinical needs. This course has no prerequisites.
C815 - Quality and Performance Management and Methods - Quality and Performance Management and Methods examines quality initiatives within
healthcare. Quality issues cover human resource management, employee performance, and patient safety. This course focuses on quality
improvement initiatives and performance improvement with the health information management perspective.
C816 - Healthcare System Applications - Healthcare System Applications introduces students to information systems. This course includes important
topics related to management of information systems (MIS), such as system development and business continuity. The course also provides an
overview of management tools and issue tracking systems. This course has no prerequisites.
C833 - Chemistry with Lab - Chemistry with Lab for graduates provides already licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
middle grades science or secondary physics, biological science, or earth science with an introduction to the field of chemistry. Designed for those not
majoring in chemistry education, this course highlights how the topics covered can be applied within various branches of science. This course provides
students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas,
determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the
study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science for graduates is a prerequisite for this
course.
C841 - Legal Issues in Information Security - Security information professionals have the role and responsibility for knowing and applying ethical and
legal principles and processes that define specific needs and demands to assure data integrity within an organization. This course addresses the laws,
regulations, authorities, and directives that inform the development of operational policies, best practices, and training to assure legal compliance and
to minimize internal and external threats. Students analyze legal constraints and liability concerns that threaten information security within an
organization and develop disaster recovery plans to assure business continuity.
C843 - Managing Information Security - This course expands on fundamentals of information security by providing an in-depth analysis of the
relationship between an information security program and broader business goals and objectives. Students develop knowledge and experience in the
development and management of an information security program essential to ongoing education, career progression, and value delivery to
enterprises. Students apply best practices to develop an information security governance framework, analyze mitigation in the context of compliance
requirements, align security programs with security strategies and best practices, and recommend procedures for managing security strategies that
minimize risk to an organization.
C844 - Emerging Technologies in Cybersecurity - The continual evolution of technology means that cybersecurity professionals must be able to
analyze and evaluate new technologies in information security such as wireless, mobile, and internet technologies. Students review the adoption
process that prepares an organization for the risks and challenges of implementing new technologies. This course focuses on comparison of evolving
technologies to address the security requirements of an organization. Students learn underlying principles critical to the operation of secure networks
and adoption of new technologies.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 255
C845 - Information Systems Security - IT security professionals must be prepared for the operational demands and responsibilities of security
practitioners including authentication, security testing, intrusion detection and prevention, incident response and recovery, attacks and
countermeasures, cryptography, and malicious code countermeasures. This course provides a comprehensive, up-to-date global body of knowledge
that ensures students have the right information, security knowledge, and skills to be successful in IT operational roles to mitigate security concerns
and guard against the impact of malicious activity. Students demonstrate how to manage and restrict access control systems; administer policies,
procedures, and guidelines that are ethical and compliant with laws and regulations; implement risk management and incident handling processes;
execute cryptographic systems to protect data; manage network security; and analyze common attack vectors and countermeasures to assure
information integrity and confidentiality in various systems. This course prepares students for the Systems Security Certified Practitioner (ISC2 SSCP)
certification exam.
C850 - Emerging Technologies - The Emerging Technologies course examines emerging technologies, identifies the benefits and drawbacks of
technology adoption, and provides students with a process to evaluate technologies. The course will examine three technologies that may have an
impact on Information Technology services in the coming years.
C854 - Nursing Informatics Field Experience - Nursing Informatics Field Experience requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences while
engaging in authentic activities relevant to the role of an informatics nurse. To help students develop competency in this area, this course gives
students opportunities to apply methods and solutions to support clinical decisions. They will be prepared to improve health outcomes by analyzing an
existing health information system to determine the need for a system optimization that will improve an organization’s ability to measure and report
Triple Aim objectives. All MSN Core and Specialty courses, with the exclusion of the Capstone course, are prerequisites to this course and must be
completed before taking this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
C855 - Nursing Informatics Capstone - Nursing Informatics Capstone requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences (CPE) and finalize
their system optimization proposal paper, which addresses the Institute of Health’s Triple Aim initiative. During this course, students will plan the final
phase of their system development life cycle (SDLC), which consists of proposing the processes, methods, and tasks for monitoring, maintaining,
supporting, and evaluating their system optimization. The knowledge and skills that students acquire during the CPE in this course will prepare them to
complete their system optimization proposal paper. This is a culminating course that provides students an opportunity to demonstrate the
competencies acquired during this program. All MSN Core and Specialty courses, including the Field Experience course, are prerequisites to this
course and must be completed before taking this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
C867 - Scripting and Programming - Applications - In this undergraduate course students explore the various aspects of the C++ programming
language by examining its syntax, the development environment, and tools and techniques to solve some real-world problems.
C870 - Human Anatomy and Physiology - This course examines the structures and functions of the human body and covers anatomical terminology,
cells and tissues, and organ systems. Students will study the healthy state of the organ systems of the human body, including the digestive, skeletal,
sensory, respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine, and renal systems. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
C871 - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment contains a
comprehensive, original, research-based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the candidate’s
ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning process.
The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting of seven
components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision-making, 6) analysis of student
learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C874 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance Assessment
contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting
of seven components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of
student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C878 - Mathematical Modeling and Applications - Mathematical Modeling and Applications applies mathematics, such as differential equations,
discrete structures, and statistics to formulate models and solve real-world problems. This course emphasizes improving students’ critical thinking to
help them understand the process and application of mathematical modeling. Probability and Statistics II and Calculus II are prerequisites.
C880 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual underpinnings,
common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and assess the learning
of algebra. Secondary teachers should have an understanding of the following: algebra as an extension of number, operation, and quantity; various
ideas of equivalence as it pertains to algebraic structures; patterns of change as covariation between quantities; connections between representations
(tables, graphs, equations, geometric models, context); and the historical development of content and perspectives from diverse cultures. In particular,
the course focuses on deeper understanding of rational numbers, ratios and proportions, meaning and use of variables, functions (e.g., exponential,
logarithmic, polynomials, rational, quadratic), and inverses. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C882 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common student misconceptions and ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and assess
the learning of geometry. Students in this course will develop a deep understanding of constructions and transformations, congruence and similarity,
analytic geometry, solid geometry, conics, trigonometry, and the historical development of content. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C884 - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores
important conceptual underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices
to support and assess the learning of statistics and probability. Secondary teachers should have a deep understanding of summarizing and
representing data, study design and sampling, probability, testing claims and drawing conclusions, and the historical development of content and
perspectives from diverse cultures. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C886 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus examines rigorous reconsideration and proofs involving calculus. Topics include real-number
systems, sequences, limits, continuity, differentiation, and integration. This course emphasizes students’ ability to apply critical thinking to concepts to
analyze the connections between definitions and properties. Calculus III and Linear Algebra are prerequisites.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 256
C887 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance Assessment
contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting
of seven components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of
student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C889 - Molecular and Cellular Biology - Molecular and Cellular Biology provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or to
earn their MA degree in secondary science education with an introduction to the area of molecular and cellular biology. This course examines the cell
as an organism emphasizing molecular basis of cell structure and functions of biological macromolecules, subcellular organelles, intracellular
transport, cell division, and biological reactions. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C891 - Ecology and Environmental Science - Ecology and Environmental Science is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial
licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. The course explores the relationships
between organisms and their environment, including population ecology, communities, adaptations, distributions, interactions, and the environmental
factors controlling these relationships. This course has no prerequisites.
C893 - Geology II: Earth Systems - Geology II: Earth Systems provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA
degree in secondary science education with an examination of the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere and the dynamic equilibrium
of these systems over geologic time. This course also examines the history of Earth and its lifeforms, with an emphasis in meteorology. A prerequisite
for this course is Geology I: Physical.
C895 - Astronomy - Astronomy provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or
middle grade science education with essential knowledge of astronomy. This course explores Western history and basic physics of astronomy; phases
of the moon and seasons; composition and properties of solar system bodies; stellar evolution and remnants; properties and scale of objects and
distances within the universe; and introductory cosmology. A prerequisite for this course is General Physics.
C907 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. This course explores the overarching theories of
life from biological research as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the
environment. Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the
environment to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C908 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and Earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical and everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
C912 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C918 - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments examines the
multidimensional roles of a contemporary academic nurse educator. This course explores the roles and responsibilities of the nurse educator as a
teacher, leader, change agent, and curriculum innovator. Students will also examine the importance of personal and professional development by
developing strategies that promote academic integrity, cultural sensitivity, social justice, and ethical/legal values in diverse environments. The course
emphasizes the responsibility of nurse educators to utilize communication, collaboration, and leadership in mitigating challenges in academic nursing
education.
C919 - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning explores how the nurse
educator will incorporate authentic experiences into the creation of course plans that facilitate scholarly inquiry, collaboration, and knowledge
acquisition in varied educational environments. Emphasis is placed on innovative, transformational, and experiential teaching and learning strategies
to facilitate student development of professional, context-based nursing principles, knowledge, skills, and behavior. Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators
in Diverse Environments is a prerequisite to this course.
C920 - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing Education - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing
Education analyzes the concepts of creating curriculum based on national nursing accreditation standards and instructional design best practices.
Nurse educator students will create course content that supports learning in diverse, real-world environments where nurse educators facilitate learning.
Instructional design strategies for delivering course content will reflect the mission of academic institution programs, contemporary trends in nursing
education, and the needs of key stakeholders in nursing education and practice. Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning is a
prerequisite to this course.
C921 - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student Learning - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student
Learning addresses the academic nurse educator's role in the design, development, implementation, and evaluation of student achievement outcomes
in nursing education programs. This course requires students to integrate best practices from nursing theory and theories of learning to assess student
learning in diverse educational settings. Topics include validity, reliability, and practicality of assessments, interpreting item difficulty and discrimination
test results, and analyzing student achievement and learning outcomes data. This course has no prerequisites.
C922 - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing Education - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing Education
analyzes the emerging trends, technologies, and challenges that academic nurse educators encounter when facilitating learning in diverse healthcare
settings. Students will focus on the necessity of interprofessional collaboration and the barriers and facilitators to overcoming the challenges
associated with teaching and learning in nursing. Topics include the impact of emerging technology, challenges in nursing practice, and the role of the
academic nurse educator as a scholar and a nursing education policy advocate. This course has no prerequisites.
C926 - Earth: Inside and Out - Earth: Inside and Out explores the ways in which our dynamic planet evolved, and the processes and systems that
continue to shape it. Though the geologic record is incredibly ancient, it has only been studied intensely since the end of the 19th century. Since then,
research in fields such as geologic time, plate tectonics, climate change, exploration of the deep-sea floor, and the inner earth have vastly increased
our understanding of geological processes.
C927 - Managing Technology Operations and Innovation - Managing Technical Operations and Innovations explores the importance of innovation in
the processes of operations management and business competitiveness. From the formulation of tactical operations plans from strategic objectives, IT
executives need to create partnerships to drive innovation within an organization. This course provides students with the practical knowledge and
understanding of operations management concepts, business models, methods, tools, applications and best practices used by successful
organizations to improve their operations. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 257
C928 - Financial Management for IT Professionals - Financial Management for IT Professionals develops learners’ skills in financial management,
budgeting, and procurement. This course teaches how to leverage financial know-how to improve workplace decision-making. This course also
provides learners with the knowledge and skills necessary to spend money on the right projects and right equipment, while aligning operating budgets
with strategic initiatives. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C929 - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy examines the practice of sourcing
and developing global IT projects from a management perspective. In today’s organizations, leaders look for efficient and effective ways to deliver
goods and services. This course will allow students to explore the strategic, operational, tactical, and security-related impacts on the organization of
sourcing and supporting a global IT project. Students will cultivate a deep understanding of the documents, skills, and stakeholders needed for any
given project and develop the ability to leverage these elements to achieve success. This course will also explore the ethical, cultural, and regulatory
considerations surrounding sourcing and managing IT projects in a global space. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C946 - Nursing Education Field Experience - The Nursing Education Field Experience provides the academic nurse educator student an opportunity to
work collaboratively with academic mentors and interprofessional stakeholders to analyze the need-gap for a curriculum change, innovation, or
improvement. Based on the identified need-gap, the graduate student will design and develop a course that reflects evidence-based instructional
design and assessment principles and practices. This course prepares students for the role of an Academic Nurse Educator, as an agent for change
and quality improvement in nursing education.
C947 - Nursing Education Capstone - The Nursing Education Capstone course provides the Nurse Educator student an opportunity to apply previous
course work towards the completion of an evidence-based curriculum proposal project. During this course students will build on previous work during
their Nursing Education Field Experience course by planning the implementation and evaluation phases of their proposed curriculum change. The
capstone project represents a synthesis of competencies across the Master of Science in Nursing—Nursing Education degree program, which
prepares them to lead, manage, and transform nursing education in diverse and complex settings. This course is eligible for an in-progress grade.
Please see the grading scale policy for more information.
C948 - Technical Communication - Technical Communication examines communication types and strategies that information technology executives
will use to communicate effectively within an organization. As leaders, IT executives frequently contribute to business goals by designing and
communicating specialized information in a variety of media to customers, clients, and other departments. In this course, students learn to
communicate accurately, effectively, and ethically to a variety of audiences. Students choose, design, and deliver the communication product and
assess the effectiveness to improve future communication. This course has no prerequisites.
C949 - Data Structures and Algorithms I - Data Structures and Algorithms I covers the fundamentals of dynamic data structures, such as bags, lists,
stacks, queues, trees, and hash tables with their associated algorithms. This course discusses object-oriented design and abstract data types as
design paradigms. The course emphasizes problem-solving and techniques for designing efficient, maintainable software applications. Students will
implement simple applications using the techniques learned.
C950 - Data Structures and Algorithms II - Data Structures and Algorithms II explores the analysis and implementation of high-performance data
structures and supporting algorithms, including graphs, hashing, self-adjusting data structures, set representations, and dynamic programming. The
course also introduces students to NP-complete problems. The course discusses how to use Python techniques to implement software solutions for
problems of memory management and data compression. This course has two prerequisites: Data Structures and Algorithms I and Discrete Math II.
C952 - Computer Architecture - Computer Architecture introduces students to concepts and characteristics of organization and architecture applied to
modern computer systems including performance, processor, memory, input/output, and multiprocessors to optimize system design, performance, and
efficiency.
C954 - Information Technology Management - IT Management introduces the key topics and skills needed to lead next-generation technology
organizations. This course explores how common applications and innovation drive value and business needs. Ethical and regulatory compliance
issues are discussed, including current practices for risk management, disaster recovery, and cybersecurity. Students will also analyze the key
leadership skills and traits necessary to lead responsive, competitive, and innovative organizations. This course has no prerequisites.
C955 - Applied Probability and Statistics - Applied Probability and Statistics is designed to help students develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic statistics including: introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical
data and probability are often used in everyday life, science, business, information technology, and educational settings to make informed decisions
about the validity of studies and the effect of data on decisions. This course discusses what constitutes sound research design and how to
appropriately model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, the content covers simple probability calculations, based on events that occur in
the business and IT industries. No prerequisites are required for this course.
C957 - Applied Algebra - Applied Algebra is designed to help you develop competence in working with functions, the algebra of functions, and using
some applied properties of functions. You will start learning about how we can apply different kinds of functions to relevant, real-life examples. From
there, the algebra of several families of functions will be explored, including linear, polynomial, exponential, and logistic functions. You will also learn
about relevant, applicable mathematical properties of each family of functions, including rate of change, concavity, maximizing/minimizing, and
asymptotes. These properties will be used to solve problems related to your major and make sense of everyday living problems. Students should
complete Applied Probability and Statistics or its equivalent prior to engaging in Applied Algebra.
C958 - Calculus I - This course guides candidates to apply theoretical concepts of calculus to real-world situations, demonstrating a developing
mathematical mindset. This course focuses on limits, derivatives, integrals, and differential equations; it also prepares students for Discrete
Mathematics. Prerequisites may include an entrance exam that assesses pre-calculus skills, or readiness; alternatively, completion of pre-calculus
within the past 3 – 5 years.
C959 - Discrete Mathematics I - Discrete Mathematics I helps candidates develop competence in the use of abstract, discrete structures fundamental
to computer science. In particular, this course will introduce candidates to logic and proofs; Boolean algebra and functions; set theory; finite and infinite
sequences and series; and relations, graphs, and trees. The course emphasizes applications in computer science. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this
course.
C960 - Discrete Mathematics II - Discrete Mathematics II addresses abstract, discrete, computational methods used in computer science. In particular,
this class introduces searching and sorting algorithms; big-O estimates; number theory and cryptography; recursion and induction; counting and
advanced counting techniques; discrete probability; and modeling computation. This course emphasizes applications in computer science. Discrete
Mathematics I is a prerequisite for this course.
C962 - Current and Emerging Technology - Current and Emerging Technologies explores organizational leadership trends, practices, processes, and
technology in contemporary technology-intensive organizations. IT executives need to stay informed of technological trends to determine their
relevance and implementation within an organization. This course requires students to read and evaluate academic literature pertaining to emerging IT
topics. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 258
C963 - American Politics and the US Constitution - American Politics and the U.S. Constitution examines the evolution of representative government in
the United States and the changing interpretations of the civil rights and civil liberties protected by the Constitution. This course will give candidates an
understanding of the powers of the branches of the federal government, the continual tensions inherent in a federal system, the shifting relationship
between state and federal governments, and the interactions between elected officials and the ever-changing electorate. This course will focus on
such topics as the role of a free press in a democracy, the impact of changing demographics on American politics, and the debates over and
expansion of civil rights. Upon completion of the course, candidates should be able to explain the basic functions of the federal government, describe
the forces that shape American policy and politics, and be better prepared to participate in America’s civic institutions. This course has no prerequisite.
C966 - Teaching in the Middle School - Teaching in Middle School examines the guiding principles and best teaching practices for educating middle
school students. The course explores the history of middle school; the philosophy, theory, and rationale behind middle school organization; and the
differences between elementary, middle, and secondary schools. The course also examines the unique needs of middle school students and teaching
methods used to meet the needs of these learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C968 - Software I – C# - Software I - C# builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for C# application
development. You will learn about and put into action: class design, exception handling, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop
software that meets business requirements. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming.
C969 - Software II – Advanced C# - Software II - Advanced C# refines object-oriented programming expertise and builds database and file server
application development skills. You will learn about and put into action lambda expressions, collections, and input/output to develop software with C#
that meets business requirements. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the C# language. The prerequisite
for this course is Software I - C#.
C971 - Mobile Application Development Using C# - Mobile Application Development Using C# introduces students to programming for mobile devices.
Building on students’ previous programming knowledge in C#, this course explores a broad range of topics, including mobile user interface design and
development; building applications that adapt to different mobile devices and platforms; managing data using a local database; and consuming REST-
based web services. In this course, students will focus on developing skills using the latest framework designed to provide a more modern and
streamlined development experience. This framework will help students design and code cross-platform applications that work on a range of mobile
devices. There are several prerequisites for this course: Software I and II, and UI Design.
C975 - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science focuses on teaching methods specific
to science for graduate students seeking an endorsement in middle school science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-
based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the
appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan
appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and
assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C976 - Science Methods—Secondary Biology - Science Methods—Secondary Biology focuses on teaching methods specific to science for graduate
students seeking an endorsement in secondary biology. This course focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three
dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of
technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction.
This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and
the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C977 - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary chemistry. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons
using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate
integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science
instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science
classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and assessment is a prerequisite for
this course.
C978 - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science focuses on teaching methods specific to science
for graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary earth science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based
lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the
appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan
appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and
assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C979 - Science Methods—Secondary Physics - Science Methods—Secondary Physics focuses on teaching methods specific to science for graduate
students seeking an endorsement in secondary physics. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the
three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of
technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction.
This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and
the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C992 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use dynamic technology to explore geometry, to use
axiomatic reasoning to prove statements about geometry, and to apply geometric models to solve real-life problems. Topics include axiomatic
systems, analytic proofs, coordinate geometry, plane and solid Euclidean geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, constructions, transformations,
deductive reasoning, and dynamic technology. College Algebra as well as Trigonometry and Precalculus are prerequisites.
CQC2 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in relation to the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills
necessary to apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include
antiderivatives; indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the fundamental theorem of calculus; definite integrals; acceleration, velocity,
position, and initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration; improper
integration; area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations; direction
fields; growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
CUA1 - Culture - Focuses on the nature and role of culture and the importance of cultural groups and cultural identity.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 259
D016 - Leadership Foundations and Ethics - Leadership Foundations and Ethics presents candidates with a variety of leadership theories and
strategies used by PK–12 educational leaders to develop, sustain, and evaluate a coherent system of academic and social supports that meet the full
range of students' needs. Foundational knowledge addresses the importance of developing mission, vision, and core values in collaboration with
faculty, staff, and the school community to advocate for student success. The course also covers communication strategies, interpersonal skills, and
using data to build community, influence school culture, and manage change for continuous improvement. In addition, candidates are introduced to the
significance of following professional ethical codes and the importance of modeling and advocating ethical behavior with all stakeholders.
D017 - School Law - School Law prepares candidates to understand the appropriate application of laws, rights, policies, and regulations to promote
student success. The course emphasizes the importance of understanding the history of and relationship between federal and state laws, legal
decisions, local education policies, and practices at the local school level to ensure compliance. The course further focuses on understanding the legal
rights and protections provided for all students, including those with disabilities, as well as school staff. It also addresses curriculum and instruction that
help stakeholders understand the possible effects these rights may have on administrative decisions. Candidates are also provided the opportunity to
demonstrate their capability to evaluate legal consequences of administrative decisions.
D018 - Leading Inclusive Schools - Leading Inclusive Schools covers a variety of topics that directly affect students who have been assessed and
determined to need additional support or services to ensure their academic success and well-being. The course prepares candidates to understand
and comply with applicable laws, rights, policies, and regulations as appropriate to address matters of equity, fairness, and student marginalization
based on culture and language, disability, or giftedness. These include types of special education classifications and their significance, working with
English learners (ELs), working with gifted and talented students, and using Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) frameworks to ensure optimum
learning environments for diverse learners. This course will guide candidates in building a strong repertoire of skills and knowledge related to
exceptional students. It will help them ensure that each student has equitable access to effective teachers; learning opportunities; academic, social,
and behavioral support; and other resources necessary for success. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the School Law
course.
D019 - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices focuses on the development of data literacy skills
educators need to improve the learning and development opportunities of K–12 students. Candidates will practice identifying educational problems and
data types, generating data, analyzing data, making inferences and drawing conclusions, and creating action plans within their educational settings.
Candidates will also learn best practices for data literacy, including continuous improvement planning, approaches to professional learning
communities, and instructional decision-making processes. This course has no prerequisites.
D022 - People and Talent in Educational Leadership - People and Talent in Educational Leadership prepares candidates to understand and implement
practices used to recruit, hire, and prepare school personnel to provide students with an optimal learning environment. Various school professional
development practices, such as professional learning communities, collaborative learning communities, beginning teacher induction, and mentor
programs, will be covered. Additionally the course covers methods to evaluate school personnel appropriately based on data-driven decisions;
providing realistic and actionable feedback to school personnel to continuously drive improvement; engaging all school personnel in the use and
evaluation of competing school-wide initiatives; creating and sustaining a professional culture of engagement and commitment by developing
workplace conditions that promote employee development, well-being, and professional growth; and continuously supporting school personnel to
improve their instructional practices through ongoing professional development. The candidate will also reflect on leadership standards in order to
develop a personal professional growth plan. A prerequisite for this course is D017: School Law.
D023 - School Financial Leadership - School Financial Leadership focuses on financial policies, practices, and issues connected to PK–12 school
operations. The course describes various sources of school funding, the impact these sources can have on managing school budgets, and the
challenges connected to finances that are often encountered by school leaders to ensure equitable financial support for all students. Candidates learn
how to analyze different types of school budgets and understand the principal's role in the budgetary process to ensure alignment to the school's
mission, vision, and values. This course also identifies and explains various types of commonly used accounting regulations, rules, and professional
ethical principles used to create, maintain, and evaluate school budgets to ensure the equitable and ethical use of financial resources. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of D017: School Law.
D024 - Professional Presence and Influence - Professional Presence and Influence is a masters-level course designed to guide students towards an
enhanced state of presence, where therapeutic relationships are built between nurse and patient. Students will learn techniques for self-care practices
that result in enhanced mental and physical wellbeing and that ensure ethically-generated patient care. Presence is an intrapersonal and interpersonal
quality that allows the nurse to relate to others and to be aware of the world around them. The characteristics of presence, which include holism,
intimacy, sensitivity and adaptability, create a heightened sense of awareness that fosters therapeutic relationships between the nurse and patient.
Developing a mindful, authentic presence is central to health and spiritual practices in several cultures and a major element of leadership. Students will
intentionally develop a focused mindfulness practice that will influence patient outcomes and lead to conditions that create joy in the workplace.
D025 - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional Practice - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional Practice
explores essential characteristics of the advanced professional nurse in the role of leader, educator, practitioner, or informatics specialist. In this
course, students will apply evidence-based strategies to facilitate interprofessional collaboration on teams. Students will explore the role of nurses in
advocating for change at the bedside, as well as leading teams to advocate for health policy reform. Students will gather and analyze data to identify
patients and populations at risk and recommend policy change to improve health outcomes in the community.
D026 - Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care - Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care incorporates current
standards of quality and safety within the context of value-based care. In a value-based healthcare system, the benefits are derived from measuring
health outcomes against the cost of delivering the outcomes. These benefits are then extended to patients, providers, payers, suppliers, and society as
a whole. This course introduces new healthcare delivery models, which stress a team-oriented approach to patient care and sharing of patient data so
that care is coordinated, and outcomes can be measured easily. Emphasis is placed on performance and quality improvement methods that underlie
value-based nursing care. The nurse in advanced practice today must exemplify the standards of quality and safety and be prepared to lead the
delivery of value-based patient-centered care.
D027 - Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations - Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations provides advanced practice nurses foundational
knowledge in the many pathologies encountered in practice today. Advancing from the cellular to the body system level, this course examines the
pathologies of common conditions seen in healthcare today. Consideration is also given to the human affective response to alterations in health. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 260
D028 - Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations - Advanced Health Assessment of Patients and Populations builds on prior physical
health assessment knowledge and skills acquired during undergraduate studies by focusing on the advanced assessment of biopsychosocial and
sociocultural contexts in patients and populations across the life span. This course emphasizes the use of a comprehensive health promotion, disease
prevention, and health restoration model to address health concerns in patients and communities. Students will acquire advanced assessment
knowledge and skills for clinical interviewing, focused history taking, critical diagnostic reasoning, and clinical decision-making using a problem-
focused framework that integrates authentic experiences with practical knowledge of health patterns in patients and communities. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D029 - Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care - Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care integrates nursing science with multiple information and
analytical sciences to identify, define, manage, and communicate data, information, knowledge, and wisdom in nursing practice. Students will acquire
knowledge and skills to apply informatics concepts, communications, and data that are critical to facilitating interprofessional data-driven decision-
making. It is designed to build competence in the use of patient- and population-based applications that inform and support the transformation of
nursing care delivery toward a future of value-based quality nursing care that improves health outcomes. This course aligns theoretical concepts with
practical applications of informatics and is consistent with the functional areas and responsibilities of informatics nurses as defined by the American
Nurses Association Scope and Standards for nursing informatics.
D030 - Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems - Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems prepares
graduate nurses to be thoughtful strategists and informed decision-makers who serve as strong leaders in high-performing healthcare systems.
Students develop competencies for managing diverse teams in complex systems, monitoring and measuring organizational performance, allocating
financial and human resources, and leading change towards a transformed healthcare system. Additionally, students acquire the knowledge and skills
to become full partners with other healthcare professionals by demonstrating nurse contributions toward high-quality care to patients and populations,
while working collaboratively with interprofessional teams. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D031 - Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice - Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice introduces students to
the dynamic union of healthcare innovation and evidence. Core competencies and behaviors required to be a nurse innovator are discussed.
Strategies for measuring innovation at various system levels are presented, as well as techniques for synthesizing and disseminating evidence to
advance innovation in healthcare. The skills needed to appraise the quality of diverse sources of evidence are presented within the framework of
evidence-based practice. This course focuses on identifying new and emerging sources of evidence that can inform, translate, and scale the
complexity of leading innovation in healthcare organizations. Students will experience building communities of practice for collaboratively developing
innovative practices and policies designed to improve the health of populations and enhance the patient experience of care.
D033 - Healthcare Information Systems Management - Healthcare Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of
information systems in healthcare. This course explores how information technology (IT) is an organizational resource that must be managed so that it
supports or enables healthcare organizational strategy. This course will discuss how decision support and communication are securely facilitated in the
healthcare marketplace. This course also explores current and continuously evolving technologies, strategic thinking, and issues at the intersection of
health information management and technology.
D034 - Systems Management and School Operations - Systems management and school operations instruct candidates on the operational aspects of
school leadership that are essential to developing, monitoring, and evaluating school management, school systems, and services that address and
support the needs of students and school personnel. Topics presented in this course include systems thinking; development, implementation, and
evaluation of data-based strategic planning; and school improvement processes. Candidates will evaluate the use of appropriate operational
technology and the development of communications systems that provide actionable information to internal and external stakeholders for use in
classroom and school improvement and community engagement. Each of these topics emphasizes the importance of efficiently and effectively
managing school resources to build, maintain, and evaluate a cohesive system of academic and organizational supports, services, extracurricular
activities, and accommodations to meet the full range of needs for each student. Prerequisites for this course: Leadership Foundations and Ethics and
School Law.
D035 - Educational Inquiry - Educational Inquiry focuses on practical problem solving. This course teaches candidates to use scholarly literature to
inform their own practice. It also teaches candidates to engage in their own action research processes, which empowers educators to recognize
opportunities for improvement and to systematically implement and evaluate changes. This course prepares candidates to conduct research for the
capstone. Prerequisites for this course: Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices.
D036 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional Practices - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional
Practices provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the first of
a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at an approved
practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas directly or indirectly affecting
students. Collaboration within the school and local community is a focal point for this course. The course also includes the completion of assigned
administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating administrator of the
candidate's approved practicum site. Prior to enrolling in this practicum course, the candidate must complete a minimum of 18 CUs.
D037 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and Operations - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and
Operations provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the
second of a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at
an approved practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas affecting school
operations and school personnel. The course also includes the completion of assigned administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the
candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating administrator of the candidate's approved practicum site. Prior to enrolling in
this practicum course, the candidate must complete a minimum of 18 CUs.
D038 - Educational Leadership Capstone - Educational Leadership Capstone serves as the culminating experience of this degree program, uniting
content area knowledge with the execution of a problem-based learning project. Under the guidance of program faculty, candidates will apply their data
literacy and research skills authentically and to topics appropriate to the candidate's degree program and future career goals. Projects will include
action research or program evaluation and the qualitative or quantitative research methods necessitated by the project's purpose. Prerequisites include
Data Literacy and Educational Inquiry, as well as all content area courses and field experiences prescribed in one's area of study. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of all courses with the exception of Educational Inquiry, which may be taken concurrently.
D072 - Fundamentals for Success in Business - This introductory course provides students with an overview of the field of business and a basic
understanding of how management, organizational structure, communication, and leadership styles affect the business environment. It also introduces
them to some of the power skills that help make successful business professionals, including time management, problem solving, emotional
intelligence and innovation; while also teaching them the importance of ethics. This course gives students an opportunity to begin to explore their own
strengths and passions in relation to the field while also acclimating them to the online competency-based environment.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 261
D075 - Information Technology Management Essentials - Information Technology Management Essentials includes topics such as information systems
analysis, database resource management, spreadsheet literacy, and computer literacy concepts. This course will help students understand the
importance of information technology in an organization and apply databases to solve business problems.
D076 - Finance Skills for Managers - This course provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of finance and its context within the
business environment. Students gain the knowledge to differentiate between personal and business finance and how they may overlap in a business
environment. Students also gain a fundamental knowledge of financial forecasting and budgeting, statement analysis, and decision making. This
course provides the student a business generalist overview of the field of finance and builds on previous acquired competencies related to using
spreadsheets.
D077 - Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact - Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact introduces students to the
discipline of marketing and its role within the strategic and operational environments of a business. This course covers fundamental knowledge in the
area of marketing planning, including the marketing mix, while also describing basic concepts of brand management, digital marketing, customer
relationship management, and personal selling and negotiating. All of this helps students identify the role of marketing within an organization. This
course provides students with a business generalist overview of the field of marketing and an exploration of the marketing major.
D078 - Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and Legal Environment - Business Environment Applications 1 provides students
with a generalist overview of the business environment and a deeper look at a number of topics that make up the non-discipline areas of business
which are required for a business person to be successful within any business environment. The first part of the course focuses on knowledge about
organizations and how people operate within organizations, including the areas of organizational theory, structure, and effectiveness. The course then
looks at business from a legal perspective with an overview of the legal environment of business. The course will prepare the student to consider
specific legal situations and to make legal and ethical decisions related to those situations.
D079 - Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and Operations - Business Environment II: Logistics, Process, and Operations
provides students with a generalist overview of the business environment as they explore themes of ethics, problem-solving, and innovative thinking.
This course adds to the students’ business skills and knowledge in a number of professional areas. The first part of the course uncovers a series of
business processes like project and risk management. The second part gives an introductory-level look at the specialized areas of operations
management, supply chains, and logistics. The course finishes with models of change management and how to use them to overcome barriers in
organizations.
D080 - Managing in a Global Business Environment - Managing in a Global Business Environment provides students with a generalist overview of
business from a global perspective, while also developing basic skills and knowledge to help them make strategic decisions, communicate, and
develop personal relationships in a global environment. Business today is by its very nature a global environment, and individuals working in business
will experience the global nature of business as they progress through their careers. This course builds on previously acquired competencies by
providing an overview of U.S. federal laws in relation to doing business in a global environment.
D081 - Innovative and Strategic Thinking - This course covers an important part of being a business professional: the knowledge and skills used in
building and implementing business strategy. The course helps students build on previously acquired competencies in the areas of management,
innovative thinking, and risk management while introducing them to the concepts and theories underpinning business strategy as a general business
perspective. The course will help students gain skills in analyzing different business environments and in using quantitative literacy and data analysis
in business strategy development and implementation. This course helps to provide students with a generalist overview of the area of business
strategy.
D082 - Emotional and Cultural Intelligence - Emotional and Cultural Intelligence focuses on key personal awareness skills that businesses request
when hiring personnel. Key among those abilities is communication. Students will increase their skills in written, verbal, and nonverbal communication
skills. The course then looks at three areas of personal awareness including emotional intelligence (EI), cultural awareness, and ethical self-awareness
– building on previously acquired competencies and adding new ones. This course helps start students on a road of self-discovery, cultivating
awareness to improve both as a business professional and personally.
D089 - Principles of Economics - Principles of Economics introduces students to foundational economic theories on markets and market behavior. This
information is valuable to students pursuing careers involving decision making and is applicable to any industry. This course has three competencies:
The Economic Way of Thinking, Microeconomics, and Macroeconomics. In the first, economics is defined, and fundamental economic principles are
introduced. Microeconomics develops the supply and demand model and demonstrates how it is used to understand business interactions and to
make public policy decisions. The competency includes supply, demand, elasticity, efficiency, market failure, costs, production, and market structure.
Macroeconomics focuses on the measurement and performance of the nation economy. The competency includes macroeconomic variables,
aggregate supply, aggregate demand, money, monetary policy, fiscal policy, and international trade.
D098 - Digital Marketing - This course provides students with a knowledge of digital marketing and an introduction to specializations within digital
marketing. Foundational knowledge in the areas of content marketing, digital advertising, search engine optimization, social media, web development
and analysis, and marketing automation is provided. Students gain a broad overview of digital marketing and an opportunity to explore specific areas
of specialization within the field of digital marketing to understand how digital marketing is integrated within a firm’s overall marketing strategy.
D099 - Sales Management - This course provides students with knowledge on the sales profession, customer relationship management, and sales
management functions. Students gain insights into the sales process, the relationship between sales and marketing, and the responsibilities of sales
management within both business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) selling environments.
D100 - Introduction to Spreadsheets - The Introduction to Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to analyze
business problems. Students will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business applications (e.g., using essential
spreadsheet functions, formulas, tables, charts, etc.). Introduction to Spreadsheets has no prerequisites.
D101 - Cost and Managerial Accounting - Cost and Managerial Accounting focuses on the concepts and procedures needed to identify, collect, and
interpret accounting data for management control and decision-making. Topics covered include budgeting, cost-volume-profit analysis, job costing,
process costing, activity-based costing, standard costing, and differential analysis. Prerequisites include Principles of Accounting and Financial
Accounting.
D102 - Financial Accounting - Financial Accounting focuses on ways in which accounting principles are used in business operations. Students learn
the basics of financial accounting, including how the accounting cycle is used to record business transactions under generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP). Students will also be introduced to the concepts of assets, liabilities, and equity. This course also presents bank reconciliation
methods, balance sheets, and business ethics. Principles of Accounting is a prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 262
D103 - Intermediate Accounting I - Intermediate Accounting I is the first of three in-depth financial accounting courses for accounting majors. The
course builds upon topics covered in Principles of Accounting and Financial Accounting. The course focuses on financial accounting and accounting
standards; the conceptual framework of the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); the income statement, the statement of cash flows,
and the balance sheet; cash and receivables; and inventory valuation. The prerequisite to this course is Financial Accounting.
D104 - Intermediate Accounting II - Intermediate Accounting II is the second of three in-depth financial accounting courses for accounting majors. The
course focuses on acquisition and disposition of noncurrent assets; depreciation, impairments, and depletion; intangible assets; current liabilities and
contingencies; long-term obligations; stockholders' equity; dilutive securities; and time value of money concepts. The prerequisite to this course is
Intermediate Accounting I.
D105 - Intermediate Accounting III - Intermediate Accounting III provides comprehensive coverage of investments, revenue recognition, accounting for
income taxes, pension plans, and leases. This course completes the intermediate accounting journey. The course explores further advanced topics,
including accounting changes and error analysis, full disclosure requirements in financial reporting, and interpretation of the statement of cash flows.
Intermediate Accounting I and II are the prerequisites for this course.
D115 - Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the
graduate nursing student for the role of an advanced practice nurse with the competencies and skills needed to recognize disease states, identify
disease progression, and assess and evaluate symptoms for patients across the lifespan. This course will help the graduate nursing student gain a
deeper understanding of pathophysiology from the cellular to the systems level and will provide graduate nursing students with the knowledge and
skills to determine the etiology, underlying physiological changes, and the human affective responses to alterations in health. This course will also
prepare the graduate nursing student to communicate the pathophysiology of disease processes to providers and patients.
D116 - Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate
nursing student for the role of an advanced practice nurse with the competencies and skills for prescribing and monitoring medication safely and
effectively. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to apply pharmacotherapeutics in primary care settings by utilizing the pivotal basis of
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to select the correct medication, describe the
rationale for that selection to the patient, family, and other providers, and to effectively monitor the patient to promote positive drug outcomes.
D117 - Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Health Assessment prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies necessary to provide primary health care to patients and families of
diverse populations. Students will develop the skills needed for systematically collecting and analyzing subjective and objective patient data. Through
simulation and clinical experiences, students will use data to determine current and ongoing patient health status, predict health risks, and identify
health-promoting activities for patients across the lifespan. Advanced Health Assessment will prepare the nursing graduate with the critical thinking,
clinical reasoning, and advanced diagnostic skills required for advanced practice nursing. Upon completion of Advanced Health Assessment, the
graduate will be able to synthesize individual and systems level subjective and objective data to facilitate the differential diagnosis processes. Also, the
graduate will be able to clearly describe to patients and providers the pertinent health assessment findings and rationale supporting the diagnostic
process.
D118 - Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate nursing
student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to provide primary healthcare to adult
patients and families. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to demonstrate competence in leading health promotion and disease
prevention activities; diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for patients with acute and chronic conditions; and empowering patients to pursue
positive health outcomes. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to collaborate with adult patients to develop effective plans of care
that build patient self-efficacy in the process of preventing and treating disease. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D119 - Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate
nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to provide primary healthcare
to pediatric patients, from infancy through adolescence, and their families in an outpatient setting. This course will prepare the graduate nursing
student to demonstrate competence in leading health promotion and disease prevention activities; in diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for
pediatric patients with acute and chronic conditions; and in empowering patients and their families in pursuing positive health outcomes. This course
will also prepare the graduate nursing student to collaborate with pediatric patients and their families in developing effective plans of care that build
patient and family self-efficacy in the process of preventing and treating disease. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D120 - Special Populations Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Special Populations Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse
prepares the graduate nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to
provide primary healthcare to unique patient populations in the outpatient setting. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to demonstrate
competence in leading health promotion and disease prevention activities; in diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for patients with specific
disease processes; and in empowering patients and their families in pursuing positive health outcomes. This course will also prepare the graduate
nursing student to collaborate with unique patient populations and their families in developing effective plans of care that build self-efficacy in the
process of preventing and treating specific disease processes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D121 - Health Promotion of Patients and Populations Across the Lifespan - Health Promotion of Patients and Populations Across the Lifespan
prepares the graduate nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to
provide health promotion activities to individuals and populations. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to incorporate individual
characteristics, population factors, and social determinants of health (SDOH) in determining the most efficient use of finite resources in leading health
promotion activities. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to lead health promotion activities for individuals and specific
populations across the lifespan. All MSN Core courses, as well as Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced
Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse must be completed before taking
this course.
D122 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I prepares the graduate nursing student to perform
the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families, and groups
throughout the life span. Using the precepted clinical setting, this course will provide opportunities for the graduate nursing student to combine
competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver patient-centered healthcare. This course will also provide the
graduate nursing student with opportunities to conduct advanced health assessments and use the competencies of advanced pathophysiology,
pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy in individuals and groups, determine
correct diagnoses, and establish plans of care that include patient and population preferences. All MSN Core courses, as well as Advanced
Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for
the Advanced Practice Nurse and FNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 263
D123 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II prepares the graduate nursing student to perform
the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families, and groups
throughout the life span. In the precepted clinical setting, the student will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice
coursework to deliver consumer-centered healthcare. The student will conduct advanced health assessments and use the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy in individuals and
groups, determine correct diagnoses, and establish plans of care that include consumer and population preferences. All MSN Core courses, Advanced
Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for
the Advanced Practice Nurse, FNP Specialty courses, and D122 Family Nurse Practitioner Internship I must be completed before taking this course.
D124 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families,
and groups across throughout the lifespan. In the precepted clinical setting, the student will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced
practice coursework to deliver consumer-centered healthcare. Therefore, the graduate will conduct advanced health assessments and utilize the
competencies of advanced pathophysiology, pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-
efficacy in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish plans of care that include consumer and population preferences.
All MSN Core courses, FNP Specialty course, and Family Nurse Practitioner Internship I and II must be completed before taking this course.
D155 - Leading with Personal Mastery - Leading with Personal Mastery prepares the advanced professional nurse to demonstrate self-awareness,
self-management, executive function, and social awareness skills while leading and managing in diverse healthcare settings. In this course, students
will learn how to incorporate these skills when developing personal relationships and building teams. Developing both social and emotional intelligence
as a nurse leader will ensure that students have the ability develop strong relationships and make wise decisions when interacting with others.
Increasing personal mastery will provide students with a set of tools and strategies to improve healthcare by producing high-quality results.
Understanding their strengths and weaknesses, as a leader in healthcare will help students create a vision for success that includes making choices
that will help balance their work life more effectively.
D156 - Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement - Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement provides learning experiences that
help students develop essential skills for proposing changes that improve and enhance healthcare outcomes. In this course, students will develop a
business case during the early stages of a project by assessing the need for the project and the feasibility of initiating a project. Understanding the
techniques used to develop a business case will provide students with the skills to obtain buy-in from key stakeholders and determine the best value
strategy. Writing a strong business case presents the benefits, challenges, costs, and risks of moving forward with the project or maintaining status
quo. It compares the current situation to a future vision so key stakeholders can make data-driven decisions to move forward with the project. During
the development of a business case in this course, students will collaborate with internal and external stakeholders to initiate a healthcare
improvement project (HIP) that is grounded in project management principles and influenced by stakeholder perspectives.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D157 - Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption - Managing Human and Financial Resources in an Era of Disruption examines the main premise
of people and fiscal leadership. This includes the promotion of healthy work environments through the development of programs in support of
mitigating behavior problems for the betterment of work-life balance. Students will analyze business model budgets, revenue streams, and human and
financial resource allocation, develop training programs to evaluate compliance and regulatory requirement, and create team building experiences to
promote high performing teams by improving engagement, establishing trust, and achieving common goals. Students will assess an organization’s
mission, vision, and values to establish alignment between healthcare improvement and an organization’s principles for management. Changes in
healthcare are inevitable, as the business success strategies used in the past are not sufficient for surviving in an era of persistent disruption. This
course will help students develop the skills nurse leaders need to become partners in recommending innovative strategies that promote value-based
healthcare for the future.
D158 - Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare Improvement Project - Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare Improvement
Project will help students develop the skills for systems thinking, problem-solving, and data-driven decision-making. In this course, students will plan
the implementation of a healthcare improvement project by identifying people, processes, and procedures that need to be in place for implementation.
In addition, sociodemographic data on the population that may be affected by the healthcare improvement project will be analyzed to determine risks
and opportunities. During this phase, students will perform an assessment of the forces that may drive or restrain implementing the project. They will
also identify short-term objectives and create action plans to align to the vision, mission, and values of the organization where the project will be
implemented. Students will also examine the evolution of existing policies, procedures, and processes at the systems level for the purpose of
advocating change that will support a healthcare improvement project. During this course, students will plan the implementation of their healthcare
improvement project through the use of sociodemographic and health data, strategic planning, and a comprehensive integration of quality and safety
concepts. This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D159 - Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating Healthcare Improvements - Evidence-based measures for evaluating healthcare improvements is an
essential component of the planning phase of the healthcare improvement project. In this course, students will determine key performance indicators
and metrics used to determine the success of a healthcare improvement project (HIP). The student will develop collaborative partnerships and build
consensus with stakeholders to determine how specific data will be collected, managed, and analyzed. This is also an opportunity to discuss data
issues and technologies needed for the project. To accomplish this phase, students will also determine the parameters, procedures, and technologies
needed for data collection, management, analysis, and reporting.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D160 - Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience - The Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience course provides an
opportunity for students to apply the knowledge and skills they developed in previous courses toward the successful implementation of their healthcare
improvement project (HIP). This phase puts into action all the components of project management that were planned and developed while working
collaboratively with key stakeholders to establish the need and feasibility of the HIP, analyzing the organizational readiness for change, and planning
the implementation and evaluation phases. In this phase, students will develop and implement a training plan for staff, managers, and leaders. They
will also implement the communication plan they developed in a previous course. They will also manage the implementation process by applying
organizational standards and practices. Students will demonstrate strong leadership skills when meeting with stakeholders to report the status of the
implementation phase and collaboratively problem-solve risks. Completion of the specialty courses is a pre-requisite for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 264
D161 - Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone - The Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone provides students with an opportunity to
evaluate and close their capstone project. This is the final course in the MSN Leadership and Management program. Students will evaluate the
success of their healthcare improvement project (HIP) by analyzing results, using the key performance indicators and metrics that were identified while
planning the evaluation phase. Students will present the results of the improvement project in a final report and presentation with a focus on lessons
learned throughout each of the phases: initiation, planning, implementation, and evaluation. Reflective and analytic thinking are essential aspects of a
capstone project, as students reflect and report on the successes and challenges encountered in each phase. Nursing Leadership and Management
Field Experience is a prerequisite for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D174 - Marketing Management - Marketing Management examines foundational marketing concepts. Marketing is ever-present in our daily lives and
this course will help students understand how organizations use marketing activities to create value for their customers. Students will study the
strategic marketing planning process and the marketing mix of product, price, place, and promotion. Students will gain knowledge about the market
research process and how data are used to inform marketing decisions. Emphasis will be placed on ethical and sustainable marketing practices, along
with a focus on service marketing in today’s service economy. This course will provide students with a basic marketing understanding to prepare them
for specialized major courses.
D175 - Consumer Behavior - Consumer Behavior examines the buying behavior of consumers in the marketplace. Students will gain knowledge of
consumer behavior theories and an understanding of how consumer behavior concepts apply to the consumer decision-making process. Students will
learn how consumer insights are gained through the exploration of external social and cultural influences such as reference groups, family, and culture,
as well as consumer influences such as needs, motivation, personality, and learning. The course also provides an interdisciplinary perspective,
including psychology, sociology, anthropology, and economics, to better evaluate and predict consumer behavior.
D176 - Content Marketing - Content Marketing examines how organizations create and distribute marketing communications to attract and retain
customers. Students will gain knowledge of the content planning process and how content marketing supports brand and organizational goals by
learning how to create, distribute, promote, and measure relevant and valuable content. Students will learn content ideation and will write compelling
copy that creates relationships with customers to build trust and enhance an organization’s reputation and authority.
D177 - Brand Management - Brand Management examines how brands provide value to both consumers and organizations. Brands are a part of a
consumer’s everyday life and organization’s strategically plan, measure, and manage brands. In this course, students will apply the strategic brand
management process using a customer-based brand equity model. Students will identify how brand strategies are used and how brand associations
are leveraged to create a competitive advantage. Brand equity measurement systems are explored, including brand audits and tracking studies that
use qualitative and quantitative brand research techniques. Students will construct a brand architecture strategy by identifying brand extension
opportunities to develop an appropriate branding strategy in a global marketplace. Reputation-management strategies and crisis management
techniques are also taught to assist in preserving and protecting an organization’s brand equity.
D178 - Marketing Strategy and Analytics - Marketing Strategy and Analytics is the capstone course for the marketing major. The course provides
students with the opportunity to demonstrate competencies developed throughout the program by engaging in the design, implementation, and
analysis of a marketing strategy. Students are given business scenarios using simulations and case studies to apply critical-thinking and decision-
making skills. Students will analyze the business environment and make decisions about market segmentation, buyer behavior, and the marketing mix.
Students will demonstrate the relationship between strategy and analytics by using marketing analytics to report marketing campaign results and make
recommendations. This course provides students with real-world application to prepare them for the marketing industry.
D179 - Data-Informed Practices - Data-Informed Practices focuses on the development of data literacy skills. This course teaches candidates about
the different types of data, the benefits and limitations of those data types, and how they can use data to identify and solve problems and inform
decisions. The course also teaches candidates how to locate, collect, and analyze data from relevant and credible sources, and how to draw
conclusions from data in order to drive continuous improvement. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D180 - Educational Research - Educational Research focuses on practical problem solving. This course teaches candidates to use scholarly literature
and current research to inform their own practice. It also empowers candidates to recognize opportunities for improvement and engage in action
research to systematically implement and evaluate changes. This course prepares candidates to conduct research for the capstone. Data-Informed
Practices is a prerequisite for this course.
D181 - MSCIN Capstone - The Master of Science in Curriculum and Instruction Capstone is the culminating course of the degree. It unites content
area knowledge with the completion of a research project or study. This course teaches candidates, under the guidance of program faculty, to apply
their data literacy and research skills to topics related to curriculum and instruction and to their career goals. Projects for this course include action
research or applied research through the necessary qualitative, quantitative, or mixed research methods. Prerequisites for this course include Data-
Informed Practices and Educational Research, as well as all prescribed courses in the candidates' area of study. Additionally, students wishing to add
the Capstone with fewer than four weeks remaining in the term must receive permission from program leadership.
D184 - Standards-Based Assessment - Standards-Based Assessment teaches candidates how to unpack academic standards to determine the
essential learnings within the standards that should be assessed. This course teaches candidates how to determine, based on academic standards,
which topics should be assessed and how to use proficiency statements to create and score standards-based assessments. This course also prepares
students to analyze assessment data and develop a holistic assessment system for a specific subject and grade level. Differentiated Instruction is a
prerequisite for this course.
D186 - Learning as a Science - Learning as a Science examines how research from the field of learning sciences can be applied to improve teaching
and learning. This course explains how teachers can create a sense of community by examining personal biases and establishing a culturally inclusive
learning environment. The course also provides evidence-based strategies for improving motivation, increasing understanding and retention, and
teaching social-emotional skills that students need to be successful socially and academically. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D187 - Differentiated Instruction - Differentiated Instruction examines how the classroom environment and students’ readiness levels, interests, and
learning profiles influence learning. K–12 educators taking this course will acquire a deep understanding of their students in order to differentiate their
curriculum, instruction, and assessments in response to individual students’ needs. This course will allow students to also learn how to effectively
monitor and communicate students’ progress toward standards and adjust their practice as needed to empower students and nurture their abilities and
aptitudes. As a result of their learning in this course, K–12 teachers will be prepared to act as catalysts for differentiation within their schools and
districts. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D188 - The Collaborative Leader - The Collaborative Leader demonstrates strategies teacher leaders can use to collaborate with other professionals,
families, and communities to build strong relationships and improve school effectiveness. This course examines models of collaboration and the
benefits and challenges of collaboration. It also examines the characteristics of effective professional development and explains how to collaboratively
design effective professional development opportunities for educators. Finally, this course demonstrates how accomplished teachers can build
relationships with families and the community to create a positive learning experience for students. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 265
D190 - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems introduces students to healthcare information technology as a
discipline. Focusing on evaluating health information systems and collecting data, students will learn the various roles and functions of the health
information manager in supporting the business of healthcare. This course introduces students to information technology as a discipline. This course
also exposes students to the various roles and functions of the health information manager in supporting the business of healthcare. Students will learn
through e-text readings, videos, case studies, several modules from LinkedIn Learning, knowledge checks, and unit quizzes. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D196 - Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting - Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting provides students with an introduction to
the discipline of accounting and its context within the business environment. In this course, students will learn to differentiate between financial, cost,
and managerial accounting and where these accounting types fit into the business environment. This course will help students gain a fundamental
knowledge of the budgeting process, how to analyze basic financial statements, and how to use spreadsheets to analyze data. This course provides
students with a business generalist overview of the field of accounting and acts as a preview course for the accounting major.
D197 - Version Control - Version control is critical to maintaining software and enabling scalability solutions. A best practice for any programming
project that requires multiple files uses version control. Version control enables teams to have collaborative workflows and enhances the software
development lifecycle. This course introduces students to the basics of publishing, retrieving, branching, and cloning. There are no prerequisites for
this course.
D198 - Global Arts and Humanities - This is a Global Arts and Humanities course that contains three modules with corresponding lessons. This course
is an invitation to see the world through the humanities, examine the humanities during the Information Age, and explore the global origins of
music—essentially questioning what makes us human, and how people are connected across culture and time. Each module includes learning
opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities to practice
and check learning. With no prior knowledge or experience, a learner can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D199 - Introduction to Physical and Human Geography - This is Introduction to Physical and Human Geography, a three-module course that
addresses the question of what geography really is in today's complex world; how migration affects—and has been affected by—geography; and one of
the biggest present problems related to geography: climate change. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly
or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior
knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30–40 hours on the course content.
D202 - Human Growth and Development - This is Human Growth and Development, a three-module course that examines the entire human lifetime,
from conception to death. Presented chronologically, the course focuses on three key areas: physical, cognitive, and psychosocial growth, along with
other important issues such as cultural influences, emotions, and resilience. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as
quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no
prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D203 - Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology - Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology provides an overview of the structures and functions of
organs and systems of the human body. This course will explore how the parts of the body systems work together to produce movement, transport
nutrients, eliminate wastes, protect vital tissues and organs, regulate bodily functions, and support reproduction and growth, through videos, readings,
exploratory learning, and practice activities.
D215 - Auditing - Auditing covers the entire auditing process. This course will help students gain an understanding of the different assurance services,
the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct, and the conceptual framework for members in public practice. The course will teach students how to assess
for audit risk, develop an audit strategy, and gain an understanding of the audit client. Audit evidence and a client’s system of internal control will be
discussed in depth. The course requires students to assess risk response by identifying and evaluating tests of controls and substantive procedures. In
addition, the course will have students evaluate risk response using data analytics and audit sampling for substantive tests. The course concludes with
the completion of the audit through subsequent events, engagement wrap-up and management representation, and reporting on the audit with an
unqualified audit report or a modification of the audit report. The prerequisites to this course are Intermediate Accounting I, II, and III, Accounting
Information Systems, and Business Law for Accountants.
D216 - Business Law for Accountants - Business Law for Accountants is designed to provide the advanced accounting student an understanding of the
legal environment and issues encountered in the profession. Topics include the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), contracts, securities regulation,
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, legal entities, ethics, agency, and bankruptcy. The prerequisite to this course is Financial Accounting.
D217 - Accounting Information Systems - Accounting Information Systems (AIS for short) introduces students to AIS, with particular emphasis on the
accountant’s role in management and financial reporting systems. Topics include transaction cycles and related information technology (IT) controls,
data management, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and e-commerce systems, systems development and acquisition, documentation, and IT
auditing. D103 Intermediate Accounting I and D104 Intermediate Accounting II are the prerequisites to this course.
D218 - Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional Growth - Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional Growth fosters the development of professional
identity. Building on the knowledge, skills, and attitudes gained through nursing practice, students in this course will explore the relationship of
theories, professional competencies, standards of leadership, education, and professionalism. The course content will cover development of a nurse
as a leader who is proficient in asserting control, influence, and power in professional and personal contexts.
D219 - Scholarship in Nursing Practice - Scholarship in Nursing Practice teaches students how to design and conduct research to answer important
questions about improving nursing practice and patient care delivery outcomes. This course introduces the basics of evidence-based practice, which
students are expected to implement throughout their clinical experiences. Students of this course will graduate with more competence and confidence
to become leaders in the healing environment.
D220 - Information Technology in Nursing Practice - Information Technology in Nursing Practice provides a basic overview of information technology
as it relates to the baccalaureate-prepared nurse. It is a foundational overview of nursing informatics with an emphasis on developing basic
competency. This course teaches students that nursing informatics synthesizes nursing science, information science, and computer science through
health applications to support decision-making in a dynamic healthcare environment. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as
prerequisites for this course.
D221 - Organizational Systems and Healthcare Transformation - Course Description Organizational Systems and Healthcare Transformation covers
foundational knowledge, skills, and attitudes toward organizational leadership within healthcare systems that can help students be successful. This
course focuses on the concepts of patient safety, improvement science, fiscal responsiveness, quality of care, value-based care, and patient-centered
care. Additional topics of quality science and innovation, systems redesign, and interprofessional roles assist the student in building necessary skills
for healthcare transformation. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 266
D222 - Comprehensive Health Assessment - Comprehensive Health Assessment builds upon students’ existing knowledge of nursing assessment. The
course presents current and innovative assessment techniques of the physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual well-being of patients. Use of
assessment data and shared decision-making are discussed throughout the course. This course also outlines the concepts of a head-to-toe
assessment, providing students with an understanding of how to critically think about the different aspects of the assessment and analyze patient cues
to determine the implications of findings. Students will also analyze lifestyle and cultural implications of health. All prior courses in the sequence for this
program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D223 - Healthcare Policy and Economics - Healthcare Policy and Economics is a foundational course that introduces the concepts of value-based care
and the role of the nurse. This course includes concepts related to financial responsiveness, shared decision-making, preference-sensitive care,
leveraging data. In this course, students learn about cost and fee-for-service in terms of value to the client and patient rather than value to the
healthcare system. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D224 - Global and Population Health - Global and Population Health prepares students for the role of the nurse in preserving and promoting health
among diverse populations. Additionally, basic principles of epidemiology, social determinants of health (SDOH), and resource allocation through
value-based care are outlined. The course introduces planning, organization, and delivery of services for diverse populations in community settings,
including illness prevention, disaster preparedness, and environmental health. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites
for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D225 - Emerging Professional Practice - Emerging Professional Practice presents a variety of professional nursing specialty areas. Students explore
various practice specialties, including palliative care, genetics and genomics, and others. The course provides pathways to specialized nursing
practice. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D226 - BSNU Capstone - The BSNU capstone is a synthesis of previously acquired knowledge, skills, and attitudes and requires students to
demonstrate competency in the program outcomes. Emphasis is placed on change facilitation in a healthcare setting, based in evidence and
incorporating value-based care. This course provides students with an opportunity to engage in a project that is actionable, relevant, highly
collaborative, and based on innovative thinking.
D235 - Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare - Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare is designed to
help students prepare for success in the online environment at Western Governors University and beyond. Student success starts with the social
support and self-reflective awareness that will prepare them to handle the challenges of all academic programs. In this course, students will complete
several individual assignments that are intended to give the student an opportunity to reflect on where they are and where they would like to be. The
activities in the course are designed to give students several tools they can use to achieve success. This course is designed as a four-part intensive
learning experience. Students will engage in activities that will help them understand their own educational journey and find support and inspiration in
the journey of others. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D236 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is a course designed for nursing students, providing an overview of the pathology and treatment of
diseases in the human body, tissues, glands and membranes, the integumentary system, the sensory system, skeletal and muscular systems, the
digestive system, blood, vessels and circulation, lymphatic system, immunity and disease, heart and respiratory system, nervous, urinary and
endocrine systems, and male and female reproductive systems. Prerequisites include all prior courses in this programmatic sequence.
D246 - Influential Communication through Visual Design and Storytelling - Influential Communication through Visual Design and Storytelling provides
learners with foundational visual design and storytelling techniques to influence and create a lasting impression on audiences. Learners will first
explore how human behavior is influenced by visuals and when to apply visual techniques to better communicate with audiences. Next, learners will
learn techniques for creating compelling stories that create memorable images within the audience's mind. Ultimately, learners who master these skills
will be well-positioned to apply their visual and storytelling techniques to not only better communicate their thoughts and ideas to an audience, but to
also influence or motivate them.
D250 - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting provides learners with the skills and knowledge required to
practice accounting for governmental and nonprofit entities: analyzing and recording transactions, financial statement preparation in accordance with
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standards, and communication.
D251 - Advanced Auditing - Advanced Auditing reviews basic auditing concepts, including (1) planning the audit: identifying, assessing, and
responding to the risk of material misstatement; (2) specialized audit tools: attributes sampling, monetary unit sampling, and data analytic tools; (3)
completing a quality audit; and (4) reporting on financial statement audits. The second part of the course dives into an application of auditing through
(1) understanding how to audit an acquisition and payment cycle and (2) applying the knowledge learned through the acquisition and payment cycle to
the revenue cycle in a performance assessment.
D252 - Accounting Research and Critical Thinking - Accounting Research and Critical Thinking provides learners the skills and knowledge to research
and add validity to accounting reports, resolution of issues, and procedural arguments: critical thinking, communication, research strategies, and
database resources.
D253 - Values-Based Leadership - Values-Based Leadership guides students to learn by reflection, design, and scenario planning. Through a
combination of theory, reflection, value alignment, and practice, the course helps students examine and understand values-based leadership and
explore foundations in creating a culture of care. In this course, students are given the opportunity to identify and define their personal values through
an assessment and reflection process. Students then evaluate business cases to practice mapping the influence of values on their own leadership. In
this course, students also participate in scenario planning, where they can practice implementing their values in their daily routine (i.e., behaviors) and
then in a leadership setting. The course illustrates how values-driven leadership is used in goal setting as well as problem-solving at an organizational
level. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D255 - Professional Practice Experience I: Technical - The PPE I: Technical course allows you to use EHRGo, an electronic health record (EHR), to
complete 42 structured activities to experience how an HIM professional uses an EHR. The selected activities meet AHIMA's Baccalaureate level
competencies and by completing them you will earn 40 PPE hours.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D256 - Principles of Management in Health Information Management - Principles of Management in HIM provides an introductory look at the discipline
of management and its context within the health information management environment. This course provides an overview of management and
leadership, management functions, human resource management, and communication strategies. The course gives students an opportunity to analyze
how leadership and management principles are used to achieve department goals. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 267
D257 - Healthcare Project Management - Healthcare Project Management provides students with a comprehensive foundation for project
management. The course focuses on project management methodologies, process improvement analysis, business case proposals, and creating
project planning documents for health information management (HIM) projects. This course will prepare students to determine project scope and
timelines, complete interdepartmental stakeholder analysis, identify project resources, examine constraints and risks, and contribute to positive project
communication.
D258 - Organizational Leadership in Healthcare - Organizational Leadership in Healthcare provides students with an overview of the principles and
practices leaders need in healthcare environments. The course focuses on organizational leadership theory, behaviors, culture, and teamwork. This
course prepares students to apply leadership theories, principles of organizational culture development, techniques for building and leading teams,
and conflict resolution strategies to support organizational goals. This course has no prerequisites.
D259 - Professional Practice Experience II: Management - The PPE II: Management course allows you to experience your future profession at the
supervisory level. Any site where health information is used, and you can be mentored by a department or facility manager is appropriate for PPE II.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D260 - Health Information Management Capstone - The Health Information Management Capstone is the culmination of the student's degree program.
The course allows students to do an environmental scan focusing specifically on emerging issues and trends in health information management (HIM)
and to apply knowledge learned throughout the program to the problems and issues facing HIM professionals. The student will also develop a
professional and educational development plan. At the end of the course, the student will complete a RHIA practice exam.
D263 - Frameworks for Strategic Decision-Making - Frameworks for Strategic Decision-Making challenges students to use logistical reasoning, root
cause analysis, and various problem-solving skills to drive improvement, develop relationships, influence others, and make decisions. This course
addresses how to evaluate business problems, develop stakeholder-oriented solutions, and influence key stakeholders. It also promotes strategic-level
thinking and connection between business disciplines to drive outcomes. There are no prerequisites.
D265 - Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence - In this course you will learn key critical thinking concepts and how to apply them in the analysis and
evaluation of reasons and evidence. The course examines the basic components of an argument, the credibility of evidence sources, the impact of
bias, and how to construct an argument that provides good support for a claim. The course consists of an introduction and four major sections. Each
section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide
opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you understand course content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move
through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain proficiency in the four competencies that will be covered in the final assessment. If you
have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D266 - World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections - This is World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections. In this course, you
will focus on three main topics—cultural and religious diversity; pandemics; and the relationship of empires and nation states—as well as the skills of
identifying root causes, explaining causes and effects, and analyzing complex systems. This course consists of an introduction and four major
sections. Each section includes learning opportunities through reading, images, videos, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with
feedback also provide opportunities to practice and check how well you understand the content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move
through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final
assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D267 - US History: Stories of American Democracy - This course presents a broad survey of U.S. history from early colonization to the mid-twentieth
century. The course explores how historical events and major themes in American history have affected diverse populations, influenced changes in
policy an established the American definition of democracy. This course consists of an introduction and five major sections. Each section includes
learning opportunities through reading, images, videos, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities to
practice and check how well you understand the content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly
as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of
this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D268 - Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others - Welcome to Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others! It may seem like
common knowledge that communication skills are important, and that communicating with others is inescapable in our everyday lives. While this may
appear simplistic, the study of communication is actually complex, dynamic, and multifaceted. Strong communication skills are invaluable to
strengthening a multitude of aspects of life. Specifically, this course will focus on communication in the professional setting, and present material from
multiple vantage points, including communicating with others in a variety of contexts, across situations, and with diverse populations. Upon completion,
you will have a deeper understanding of both your own and others’ communication behaviors, and a toolbox of effective behaviors to enhance your
experience in the workplace.
D269 - Composition: Writing with a Strategy - Welcome to Composition: Writing with a Strategy! In this course, you will focus on three main topics:
understanding purpose, context, and audience, writing strategies and techniques, and editing and revising. In addition, the first section, will offer
review on core elements of the writing process, cross-cultural communication, as well as working with words and common standards and practices.
Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also
provide opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you understand course content. Because the course is self-paced, you may
move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain proficiency in the seven competencies that will be covered in the final
assessment. If you have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D270 - Composition: Successful Self-Expression - Welcome to Composition: Successful Self-Expression! In this course, you will focus on four main
topics: professional writing for a cross-cultural audience, narrowing research topics and questions, researching for content to support a topic, and
referencing research sources. Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment
activities with feedback also provide opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you understand course content. Because the
course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain proficiency in the seven competencies that will be
covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content. You will
demonstrate competency through a performance assessment. There is no prerequisite for this course and there is no specific technical knowledge
needed.
D276 - Web Development Foundations - Welcome to Web Development Foundations! In this course you will learn about web design and development
using HTML and CSS. This course employs the zyBooks learning platform which contains all the necessary reading materials, knowledge checks, and
hands-on activities to prepare you for the course assessment. For the best understanding of the course content, complete each chapter. This is a
foundational course, and there is no prerequisite. Competency will be demonstrated with a performance assessment.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 268
D277 - Front-End Web Development - Front-End Web Development builds upon web design and development skills to teach students how to organize
websites with navigational schemes and create reactive user web interfaces using cascading style sheets (CSS). In this course, students will
implement data entry and data storage capabilities in a web design, as well as implement best practices in design, including user-centered design and
usability. Web Development Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
D278 - Scripting and Programming - Foundations - Scripting and Programming - Foundations introduces programming basics such as variables, data
types, flow control, and design concepts. The course is language-agnostic in nature, ending in a survey of languages, and introduces the distinction
between interpreted and compiled languages. Learners will gain skills in identifying scripts for computer program requirements and in using
fundamental programming elements as part of common computer programming tasks. Learners will also gain an understanding of the logic and
outcome of simple algorithms.
D279 - User Interface Design - This course covers tools and techniques employed in user interface design, including web and mobile applications.
Concepts of clarity, usability, and detectability are included in this course, as well as other design elements such as color schemes, typography, and
layout. Techniques like wireframing, usability testing, and SEO optimization are also covered.
D280 - JavaScript Programming - JavaScript Programming introduces students to programming with JavaScript, including how to use JavaScript to
enhance a website. This course covers how to use existing frameworks, assets, and web content to enhance website functionality, as well as how to
use application programming interfaces (APIs) and web services to add data capabilities to web applications.
D281 - Linux Foundations - Linux Foundations prepares learners for the LPI Linux Essentials certification, and is an introduction to Linux as an
operating system as well as an introduction to open-source concepts and the basics of the Linux command line. Learners will gain skills in identifying
the fundamentals of open-source software and to develop resources for data access and security.
D282 - Cloud Foundations - Cloud Foundations introduces learners to real-world issues and practical solutions to cloud computing. This course covers
the business value of cloud computing, examining cloud types, the steps to successful cloud adoption, and the effect cloud adoption has on IT service
management, as well as the risks and consequences of implementing cloud solutions. This course prepares learners for the AWS Certified Practitioner
certification exam. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D284 - Software Engineering - Software Engineering introduces the concepts of software engineering to students who have completed the core
courses in programming and project management. The principles build on previously acquired concepts, switching the emphasis from programming
simple routines to engineering robust and scalable software solutions. This course does not cover programming, but it provides an overview of
software engineering processes and their challenging nature, focusing on the need for a disciplined approach to software engineering. A generic
process framework provides the groundwork for formal process models. Prescriptive process models such as the Waterfall Model and Agile
Development are included. This course also introduces the elements and phases of software engineering, including requirements engineering, design
concepts, and software quality. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D286 - Java Fundamentals - Java Fundamentals introduces you to object-oriented programming in the Java language. You will create and call
methods, design Java classes, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop software that meets business requirements. This course
requires foundational knowledge of programming including variables, type, program flow and debugging.
D287 - Java Frameworks - Java Frameworks builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for Java application
development. Students will execute exception handling, Java frameworks, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop a complete
application including a user interface. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming and the Java language.
D288 - Back-End Programming - Back-End Programming introduces students to creating back-end components of a web application with the support
of framework packages. This course also teaches students how to implement database functionality in a web application and how to create web
services. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the Java language.
D291 - Learning Experience Design Foundations I - Learning Experience Design Foundations I provides an introduction to the field of learning
experience design (LxD) and the role of the learning experience designer, which combines best practices from the fields of instructional design and
user experience design, with the goal of creating human centered, goal-oriented learning experiences. This first of two foundational courses introduces
Design Thinking and instructional design models, processes, and approaches. This course demonstrates how learning theories and instructional
frameworks can be applied to facilitate deep learning, motivation, and engagement. This course also teaches the process for analyzing learners and
their needs, as well as defining the instructional problem and goals. There are no prerequisites for this learning experience design course.
D292 - Learning Experience Design Foundations II - Learning Experience Design Foundations II is the second of two foundational courses that provide
the foundational knowledge and skills learning experience designers need to create human-centered, goal-oriented learning experiences. Continuing
to the third, fourth, and final phases of the Design Thinking Process, this course teaches the process and importance of ideation as well as rapid
prototyping. It includes techniques for creating e-learning storyboards, which communicate content plans and instructional design strategies and “look
and feel” mockups, which incorporate visual design principles and usability best practices. Finally, this course introduces usability testing methods and
provides guidelines for planning usability tests for e-learning solutions. Learning Experience Design Foundations I is a prerequisite for this course.
D293 - Assessment and Learning Analytics - Assessment and Learning Analytics focuses specifically on applying assessment and learning analytics
practices to gauge learner progress through e-learning products. This course is an introduction to assessment models, including competency and
skills-based methods, as well as culturally responsive and Universal Design for Learning (UDL) approaches in assessment, rubric, and feedback
design. Finally, this course introduces learning analytics, specifically how they can add an additional layer of validation and visibility on learner
progress.
D294 - Learning Technology - Learning Technology provides opportunities for learners to research emerging learning technologies and see how they
are changing current teaching and learning practices. This course also teaches strategies for evaluating learning technologies and their ability to
facilitate deep learning and help learners achieve their learning goals, as well as their ability to accommodate learner differences and ensure access
for all learners. This course covers techniques that learning experience designers can use to implement technology safely, legally, and ethically in a
variety of environments. Additionally, this course explores the types of learning analytics that various technologies generate and the ways in which
they can be used to better understand learner progress and optimize the learning experience.
D295 - Designing and Facilitating E-Learning Experiences for K–12 Students - Designing and Facilitating E-Learning Experiences for K–12 Students is
the first of two courses in the K-12 Learning Designer pathway. This course teaches skills needed to plan units of study that leverage virtual settings
and achieve academic standards while promoting digital citizenship. This course provides strategies for explaining essential concepts and
demonstrating examples for students in K–12 virtual settings. It also provides strategies for using technology to facilitate meaningful collaboration
among K–12 students. Finally, this course explains how to design effective practice and assessment opportunities for K–12 students in virtual settings
and provides strategies for ensuring students get the feedback they need to improve learning. Learning Technology is a prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 269
D296 - Quality and Impact of K–12 E-Learning Solutions - Quality and Impact of K–12 E-Learning Solutions is the second of two courses in the K–12
Learning Designer pathway. This course provides an introduction to the challenges K–12 students face in e-learning environments. It also directs
learners to professional and academic resources where they can find current research related to issues and innovations learning experience designers
implement to solve challenges to K–12 students in e-learning environments. This course also outlines a quality framework for evaluating e-learning
solutions for K–12 students and provides opportunities for learners to apply that framework. Lastly, this course provides examples of how learning
analytics can be used to determine the impact of e-learning for K–12 students. Through this course, learners will analyze data about K–12 learners to
determine the impact an e-learning solution has had on engagement, effort, and learning. This course teaches learners how insights gained from data
about K–12 learners can be used to optimize e-learning. Designing E-Learning Experiences for K–12 students is a prerequisite for this course.
D297 - Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults - Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults is the first of two courses in the adult learning
designer pathway. This course teaches best practices for supporting adult learners as they acquire knowledge and learn new skills and dispositions.
This course explains effective approaches to designing learning experiences for adult learners that are collaborative, experiential, and transformative
in nature. This course also explores problem-based and competency-based approaches to designing learning experiences for adults. Each evidence-
based approach is defined and supported by theory and research. The course also includes best practices for designing each type of learning
experience and provides real examples of each approach. Learning Technology is a prerequisite for this course.
D298 - Quality and Impact of Adult E-Learning Solutions - Quality and Impact of Adult E-Learning Solutions is the second of two courses in the Adult
Learning Designer pathway. This course introduces the issues learning experience designers often encounter when designing e-learning experiences
for adults. It also directs learners to resources about current research related to issues and innovations in designing online learning experiences for
adults. This course also outlines a quality framework for evaluating e-learning solutions for adults and provides opportunities for learners to apply that
framework. Lastly, this course provides examples of how learning analytics can be used to determine the impact of e-learning solutions for adults.
Learners will analyze dashboard data and determine the impact an e-learning solution has had on learner engagement, effort, and learning and how
insights gained from data about learners and the learning experience can be used to optimize learning and the environments in which it occurs.
Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults is a prerequisite for this course.
D299 - Learning Experience Design Lab - Learning Experience Design Lab requires learners to apply foundational learning experience design
strategies to create an instructional solution in the form of an e-learning module. In the course, learners will identify an instructional problem and then
design and develop a functional prototype of an e-learning solution. Learning Experience Design Lab provides an environment for learners to apply
foundational knowledge and skills, experiment with various e-learning design tools and techniques, provide helpful quality feedback to peers, and
receive quality feedback from peers about their own e-learning module. Finally, Learning Experience Design Lab teaches the importance of obtaining
user feedback and incorporating that feedback to continuously improve the learning experience. Degree-seeking learners must complete the Learning
Experience Design foundations series and two pathway courses prior to completing this course.
D300 - Identifying Learner Needs and a Research Problem - Identifying Learner Needs and a Research Problem is the first of three capstone courses
in the program. This course provides an introduction to design-based research and focuses specifically on the first two phases of the design-based
research process: identifying and analyzing the learning problem and reviewing the literature. This course also requires that learners continue applying
Design Thinking as they empathize with learners and define the instructional problem that their research will help them understand and address.
Finally, this course teaches learners how to conduct a literature review to determine what research has already been done and what is unknown about
their research topic. Learning Experience Design Lab is a prerequisite for this course.
D301 - Developing an E-Learning Solution and Research Methodology - Developing an E-Learning Solution and Research Methodology is the second
of three capstone courses in the program. This course focuses on the next two phases of the design-based research process: designing and
developing an e-learning solution and designing a research methodology to test how well the solution addressed the instructional problem. This course
also requires that learners continue applying Design Thinking as they ideate potential solutions to the instructional problem and begin prototyping a
module of instruction. Finally, this course teaches learners how to design research studies that ensure the safety of human subjects and the ethical
collection, storage, and reporting of data. The course Identifying Learner Needs and a Research Problem is a prerequisite for this course.
D302 - Implementing and Evaluating E-Learning Solutions - Implementing and Evaluating E-Learning Solutions is the third of three capstone courses
in the program. This course focuses on the final steps of the Design-Based Research process: implement, test, refine, reflect, and report. This course
also requires that learners continue applying Design Thinking as they test and refine the solution identified during the prototyping phase. The course
requires learners to test and refine their implementation strategies, use data to evaluate the effectiveness of their e-learning solution, redesign or
enhance their e-learning design based on their interpretation of the data, and summarize their design-based action research study. Developing an E-
Learning Solution and Research Methodology is a prerequisite for this course.
D303 - Azure Fundamentals - Azure Fundamentals provides the learner with skills needed to describe the following concepts: cloud concepts; core
Azure services; core solutions and management tools on Azure; general security and network security features; identity, governance, privacy, and
compliance features; and Azure cost management and Service Level Agreements. Learners will gain foundational knowledge of cloud services and
how those services are provided with Microsoft Azure. This course is intended for students who are just beginning to work with cloud-based solutions
and services or are new to Azure. Competency in this course is demonstrated by successfully completing the Microsoft Azure Fundamentals
certification exam (AZ-900). There are no prerequisites to this course.
D304 - Azure DevOps Solutions - Azure DevOps Solutions provides the learner with skills to accomplish the following technical tasks: Designing and
implementing strategies for collaboration, code, infrastructure, source control, security, compliance, continuous integration, testing, delivery,
monitoring, and feedback. This course expects candidates to have intermediate-level skills for administering Azure and understand Azure development
and DevOps processes. The following courses are prerequisites: Networks and Security—Foundations; Networks; Networks and
Security—Applications; Cloud Foundations; Cloud Platform Solutions; Azure Fundamentals; and Azure Developer Associate.
D305 - Azure Data Engineer - Azure Data Engineer prepares the learner for integrating, transforming, and consolidating data from various structured
and unstructured data systems into structures that are suitable for building analytics solutions. Learners will be provided with skills to accomplish the
following technical tasks: design and implement data storage, design and develop data processing, design and implement data security, and monitor
and optimize data storage and data processing. Candidates must have solid knowledge of data processing languages, such as SQL, Python, or Scala,
and they need to understand parallel processing and data architecture patterns. The following courses are prerequisites: Introduction to Programming
in Python, Azure Fundamentals, and Azure Developer Associate.
D306 - Azure Developer Associate - Azure Developer Associate provides the learner with subject matter knowledge in designing, building, testing, and
maintaining cloud applications and services on Microsoft Azure. Learners will be provided with the ability to program in a language supported by Azure
and proficiency in Azure SDKs, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, data storage options, data connections, APIs, app authentication and authorization,
compute and container deployment, debugging, performance tuning, and monitoring. The following course is a prerequisite: Azure Fundamentals.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 270
D308 - Mobile Application Development (Android) - Mobile Application Development introduces students to programming for mobile devices using a
software development kit (SDK). Students with previous knowledge of programming will learn how to install and use an SDK, build a basic mobile
application, build a mobile application using a graphical user interface (GUI), adapt applications to different mobile devices, save data, execute and
debug mobile applications using emulators, and deploy a mobile application.
D311 - Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach - Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach explores the science that microorganisms
are everywhere, and they have positive and negative effects on the community. The course examines the structure and function of microorganisms,
disease transmission and progression, and immune responses and other interventions, and it identifies key global diseases. The course consists of an
introduction and four major sections. Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, and other relevant resources. Assessment
activities with feedback also provide opportunities for students to check their learning, practice, and show how well they understand course content. To
assist students in developing an applied, evidence-based understanding of microbiology, this course integrates several lab experiments to help
determine the specific characteristic of an unknown microbial sample and a treatment plan. Because the course is self-paced, students may move
through the material as quickly or as slowly as needed to gain proficiency in the four competencies that will be covered in the final assessment.
Students who have no prior knowledge of or experience with this topic can expect to spend 48–60 hours on the course content. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D312 - Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab - This is Anatomy and Physiology I, a six-section, 4 CU course that enables students to develop an
understanding of the relationships between the structures and function of the integumentary, skeletal, muscular, nervous and endocrine systems in the
human body. This course will involve laboratory activities, simulated dissections, textbook material, models, and diagrams. Because the course is self-
paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies
covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 40–60 hours on the course content.
D313 - Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab - This is Anatomy and Physiology II, a six section, four CEU course that enables students to develop an
understanding of the relationships between the structures and functions of the cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, urinary, reproductive, and
lymphatic systems in the human body. This course will involve laboratory activities, simulated dissections, textbook material, models, and diagrams.
Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating
proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 40–60
hours on the course content.
D314 - Essentials of Academic Writing - The learner will explore professional communication by applying the principles of academic writing to their
discipline. Learners will incorporate these skills into the development of an evidence-based scholarly paper in their specialty area. As learners develop
a scholarly paper, they will acquire a deeper understanding of the research topic selected and analyze whether initiatives and interventions have been
effective or ineffective.
D315 - Network and Security - Foundations - Network and Security - Foundations introduces learners to the basic network systems and concepts
related to networking technologies. Learners will gain skills in applying network security concepts for business continuity, data access, and
confidentiality, and in identifying solutions for compliance with security guidance.
D316 - IT Foundations - IT Foundations provides learners with an understanding of personal computer components and their functions in a desktop
system; a knowledge of computer data storage and retrieval; and skills in classifying, installing, configuring, optimizing, upgrading, and troubleshooting
printers, laptops, portable devices, operating systems, networks, and system security. This course also gives learners the ability to recommend
appropriate tools, diagnostic procedures, preventative maintenance, and troubleshooting techniques for personal computer components in a desktop
system; strategies for identifying, preventing, and reporting safety hazards and environmental or human accidents in technological environments; and
effective communication skills for interacting with colleagues and clients, including job-related professional behavior. The course prepares learners for
the CompTIA A+ Core 1 certification exam.
D317 - IT Applications - IT Applications introduces skills in identifying operating systems and their configurations and in implementing security
principles across devices and networks. Learners will also gain skills in troubleshooting software, security, and malware issues, and in implementing
basic operational procedures in documentation, change management, compliance, and communication. The course will introduce basic disaster
recovery and business continuity procedures, scripting basics, and remote access technology solutions. The course prepares learners for the
CompTIA A+ Core 2 certification exam.
D318 - Cloud Applications - Cloud Applications prepares learners for the CompTIA Cloud+ certification exam. Learners will gain skills in designing
cloud infrastructure and services and in recommending cloud security solutions, policies, and procedures. The course will also introduce skills in
deploying cloud solutions for storage, networking, and security, and in managing cloud operations with processes, procedures, and improvements.
Learners will also gain skills in troubleshooting cloud services issues in networking, security, and performance.
D319 - AWS Cloud Architecture - AWS Cloud Architecture examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively design structured cloud
environments. Through practical application, students will gain experience in designing control measures for resilient architectures with cloud solutions
and concepts, and to design high-performing and scalable architectures for software performance workloads. Students will also learn skills in designing
security policies and access for cloud applications and architectures, and designing cost optimized storage, database and network architectures based
on situational feedback.
D320 - Managing Cloud Security - Managing Cloud Security prepares learners to safeguard cloud data with identity and access management and to
implement secure solutions in cloud service models. Learners will be introduced to skills in identifying security policies and procedures for cloud
applications and in implementing operational capabilities, procedures, and training in relation to organizational needs. Learners will also gain skills in
conducting risk analysis and risk management in alignment with disaster recovery and business continuity plans and in identifying legal, compliance,
and ethical concerns.
D321 - AWS Developer - AWS Developer examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively implement automated and continuous testing
processes for software deployments with cloud solutions. Students will learn to design software with Amazon Web Services (AWS), software
development kits (SDKs), and command line interface (CLI), and to implement authentication, encryption, and authorization within an AWS
environment. Students will also learn to design cloud service deployments with AWS infrastructure services, platform services, and features. Students
will learn skills to monitor automated testing for quality control and to perform root cause analysis on testing or production failures. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D322 - Introduction to IT - Introduction to IT examines information technology as a discipline and the various roles and functions of the IT department
as business support. Students are presented with various IT disciplines, including systems and services, network and security, scripting and
programming, data management, and business of IT, with a survey of technologies in every area and how they relate to each other and to the
business.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 271
D324 - Business of IT - Project Management - In this course, students will build on industry standard concepts, techniques, and processes to develop
a comprehensive foundation for project management activities. During a project's life cycle, students will develop the critical skills necessary to initiate,
plan, execute, monitor, control, and close a project. Students will apply best practices in areas such as scope management, resource allocation,
project planning, project scheduling, quality control, risk management, performance measurement, and project reporting. This course prepares
students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Project+.
D325 - Networks - Networks introduces skills in configuring networking components and a network infrastructure. Learners will gain skills in optimizing
network operations for availability, performance, and security, and in troubleshooting network issues. The course prepares learners for the CompTIA
Network+ certification exam. Network and Security - Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
D326 - Advanced Data Management - Advanced Data Management enables learners to extract and analyze raw data. Skillful data management
allows organizations to discover and explore data in ways that uncover trends, issues, and their root causes. In turn, businesses are better equipped to
capitalize on opportunities and more accurately plan for the future. As organizations continue to extract larger and more detailed volumes of data, the
need is rapidly growing for IT professionals who possess data management skills. The skills gained in this course include performing advanced
relational data modeling as well as designing data marts, lakes, and warehouses. This course will empower learners with the skills to build business
logic at the database layer to employ more stability and higher data-processing speeds. Learners will gain the ability to automate common tasks to
summarize and integrate data as they prepare it for analysis. Data Management - Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
D329 - Network and Security - Applications - Network and Security - Applications prepares learners for the CompTIA Security+ certification exam. The
course introduces learners to skills in identifying threats, attacks, and vulnerabilities to organizational security. The learner will also gain skills in
designing security solutions for enterprise infrastructures and architectures, as well as in implementing security solutions across hardware,
applications, and network services. Learners will be able to execute operations and incident response with tools, policies, forensics, and mitigation
techniques, and to analyze information security controls, governance, risk, and compliance.
D330 - Data Systems Administration - Data System Administration provides learners with foundational skills to become a Database Administrator
(DBA). This course illustrates how DBAs ensure businesses are able to leverage significant data to increase profitability and support key business
functions. Topics include database management tools, account administration, recovery procedures, and maintenance through upgrades and
migrations.
D332 - Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis - Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis introduces learners to the skills necessary to
perform penetration testing and vulnerability management within an organization. The course covers widely used penetration testing techniques and
tools that focus on planning and scoping, information gathering, vulnerability identification, and attacks and exploits. In addition, it offers hands-on
experience and a focus on penetration testing engagement plans.
D333 - Ethics in Technology - Ethics in Technology examines the ethical considerations of technology use in the 21st century and introduces students
to a decision-making process informed by ethical frameworks. Students will study specific cases related to important topics such as surveillance, social
media, hacking, data manipulation, plagiarism and piracy, artificial intelligence, responsible innovation, and the digital divide. This course has no
prerequisites.
D334 - Introduction to Cryptography - Introduction to Cryptography introduces skills in applying cryptography principles in alignment with organizational
and information security guidelines. Students will determine requirements and techniques for cryptanalysis. This course builds skills in implementing
encryption methods with symmetric and asymmetric algorithms.
D335 - Introduction to Programming in Python - Introduction to Programming in Python introduces skills in creating Python scripts with basic
programming concepts. Learners will be able to create control flow with functions and loops, and to implement code with packages, modules, and
libraries.
D336 - Business of IT - Applications - Business of IT - Applications examines Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL®) terminology,
structure, policies, and concepts. Focusing on the management of information technology (IT) infrastructure, development, and operations, learners
will explore the core principles of ITIL practices for service management to prepare them for careers as IT professionals, business managers, and
business process owners. This course has no prerequisites.
D337 - Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure - Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure introduces students to emerging technologies connecting
the internet to a variety of physical objects. The course reviews the business requirements for sensors and securely
storing, transmitting, and processing the data they generate. As new use cases emerge, ethical and privacy issues become relevant aspects of
business development. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D338 - Cloud Platform Solutions - Cloud Platform Solutions examines skills in identifying cloud system administration tasks related to user access
groups, single sign-on (SSO), and server deployments. Students will gain skills in determining machine access for cloud storage solutions and in
explaining the configuration of virtual machines for availability, scalability, performance, and security. Students will also be introduced to implementing
virtual networking services and machine image monitoring. The following courses are prerequisites: Network and Security - Foundations, Network and
Security - Applications, Networks, and Cloud Applications.
D339 - Technical Communication - Technical Communication introduces skills in editing professional communications, evaluating the impact of
professional etiquette in digital environments, and in creating artifacts that are persuasive, informational, and research-based. The course also
introduces skills in delivering multimedia presentations using professional verbal communication skills.
D340 - Cyber Defense and Countermeasures - Traditional defenses—such as firewalls, security protocols, and encryption—sometimes fail to stop
attackers determined to access and compromise data. This course provides the fundamental skills to handle and respond to computer security
incidents in an information system. The course addresses various underlying principles and techniques for detecting and responding to current and
emerging computer security threats. Students learn how to leverage intelligence and threat detection techniques; analyze and interpret data; identify
and address vulnerabilities; suggest preventative measures; effectively respond to and recover from incidents; and handle various types of incidents,
risk assessment methodologies, and various laws and policies related to incident handling. This course prepares students for the CompTIA
Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) certification exam. The following courses are prerequisites: Networks and Network and Security – Applications.
D341 - Cloud Deployment and Operations - Cloud Deployment and Operations provides students with technical skills in the deployment, management,
and operations of cloud services. This course allows students to examine stability and scalability, backup and recovery processes, and deployment
best practices. Provisioning of cloud resources, monitoring of cloud resources, and managing connectivity are also examined. The following courses
are prerequisites: Cloud Applications and AWS Cloud Architecture.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 272
D342 - Cloud Computing Capstone - The Cloud Computing Capstone offers learners opportunities to demonstrate the culmination of their skills
learned within the Cloud Computing program. In this course, learners will show their skills by defining system components and creating implementation
plans for cloud solutions. The course also offers learners ways to demonstrate their skills in determining configurations for API, performing system
administration tasks, and creating test plans for cloud solutions.
D343 - Foundations of Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice - Foundations of Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice guides students
through the process of learning about mental health and mental illness. This course presents the history of psychiatric care, along with cultural
components that influence individual attitudes and behaviors. This course introduces conceptual models and theories related to practice that provide
the basis for understanding the development of psychopathology to apply appropriate therapeutic strategies. This course includes clinical practice
guidelines using the DSM-5-TR (Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) as a basis for diagnostic consistency across the lifespan. This
course also includes relevant advanced practice issues, legal and ethical components, and barriers to practice that a mental health psychiatric nurse
practitioner may encounter. Various psychological responses to stress are also discussed. The following courses are prerequisites: All MSN Core
courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced
Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D344 - The Assessment and Diagnostic Process of Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner Practice - The Assessment and Diagnostic Processes for Advanced
Psychiatric Mental Health Practice guides students when examining determinants to the role of the psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner. This
course guides students in building a therapeutic relationship with patients through interviewing skills, conducting a structured assessment, milieu,
types of therapy, and various care strategies, including technology usage. This course guides students through exploring their leadership role in
collaborating with the interprofessional community as a mental health nurse practitioner. Pathways of quality improvement, practice evaluation, and
healthcare reform are also considered. The following courses are prerequisites: All MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced
Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D345 - Psychopharmacology for Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice - Psychopharmacology for Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice
explains the knowledge of advanced pharmacotherapeutics and why it is important to safely and appropriately prescribe agents to manage common
chronic and acute mental health problems of diverse populations. This includes differences between experimental and clinical psychopharmacology.
This course covers the principles of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in administration, along with patient education. This course discusses
factors of addiction and substance use, including prevalence, clinical manifestations, and treatment of various disorders. Collaborative clinical services,
such as group counseling, therapeutic communities, and medication support, are explored. The foundational information in psychopharmacology in
this course guides students in planning individualized mental health drug management for individuals across the life span based on setting, context,
and professional ethics. The following courses are prerequisites: all MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse,
Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D346 - Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of Adults and Older Adults Across Care Settings - Advanced Psychiatric Care of Adults and Older
Adults Across Care Settings prepares students to provide evidence-based mental healthcare for adults, older adults, and families. This course guides
students through the application of age and developmentally appropriate advanced practice health assessment knowledge and diagnostic reasoning
skills for adults, older adults, and families experiencing complex mental health issues. This course helps students develop treatment plans using
psychotherapeutic treatment modalities, psychopharmacology, and community resources to manage specific mental health disorders for adults, older
adults, and families. This course also includes the influences of family dynamics and societal norms on mental health progression and recovery. The
following courses are prerequisites: All MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for
the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D347 - Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of Children and Adolescents Across Care Settings - Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of
Children and Adolescents across Care Settings prepares students to provide evidence-based mental healthcare for children, adolescents, and
families. This course guides students through the application of age and developmentally appropriate advanced practice health assessment
knowledge and diagnostic reasoning skills for children, adolescents, and families experiencing complex mental health issues. This course helps
students develop treatment plans to manage specific mental health disorders through the use of psychotherapeutic treatment modalities,
psychopharmacology, and community resources. This course also covers the influences of family dynamics and societal norms on mental health
progression and recovery. The following are prerequisites for this course: all MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice
Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D348 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I - Through precepted clinical experiences, the learner will develop the
competencies needed to provide comprehensive and holistic mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. In the
precepted clinical setting, the learner will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver consumer-
centered mental health care. Therefore, the learner will conduct advanced mental health assessments and utilize the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, psychopharmacology, psychotherapy, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy
in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish mental health plans of care that include consumer and population
preferences. All MSN Core Courses, NP Core courses, and PMHNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
D349 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II - Through precepted clinical experiences, the learner will develop
competencies needed to provide comprehensive and holistic mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. In the
precepted clinical setting, the learner will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver consumer-
centered mental health care. Therefore, the learner will conduct advanced mental health assessments and utilize the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, psychopharmacology, psychotherapy and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy
in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish mental health plans of care that include consumer and population
preferences. All MSN Core Courses, NP Core courses, and PMHNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
D350 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III - Through precepted clinical experiences, the learner will develop
competencies needed to provide comprehensive and holistic mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. In the
precepted clinical setting, the learner will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver consumer-
centered mental health care. Therefore, the learner will conduct advanced mental health assessments and utilize the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, psychopharmacology, psychotherapy and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy
in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish mental health plans of care that include consumer and population
preferences. All MSN Core Courses, NP Core courses, and PMHNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
D351 - Functions of Human Resource Management - This course provides an introduction to the management of human resources, which is the
function within an organization that focuses on recruitment, management, and direction for the people who work in the organization. Students will be
introduced to topics such as strategic workforce planning and talent acquisition; compensation and benefits; training and development; employee and
labor relations; and occupational health, safety, and security.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 273
D352 - Employment and Labor Law - Employment and Labor Law reviews the legal and regulatory framework surrounding employment, including
recruitment, termination, and discrimination law. The course topics include employment-at-will, EEO, ADA, OSHA, and other laws affecting the
workplace. Students will learn to analyze current trends and issues in employment law and apply this knowledge to manage risk in employment
relationships effectively. Functions of Human Resources and Introduction to Human Resources are recommended prior to Employment and Labor Law.
D353 - Strategic Training and Development - Strategic Training and Development focuses on the development of human capital (i.e., growing talent)
by applying effective learning theories and practices for training and developing employees. The course will help develop essential skills for improving
and empowering organizations through high-caliber training and development processes.
D354 - Talent Acquisition - Talent Acquisition focuses on building a highly skilled workforce that meets organizational staffing needs by using effective
strategies and tactics for recruiting, selecting, and onboarding employees. The learner will develop competency in critical skills related to talent
acquisition, such as workforce planning, developing strategic recruiting plans, and ensuring effective selection strategies. Talent acquisition is a top
skill for HR professionals, and successful talent acquisition practices lend to individual, team, and organizational success.
D355 - Total Rewards - This course develops competence in the design and implementation of total rewards approaches in an organization. The total
rewards perspective integrates tangible rewards (e.g., salary, bonuses) with employee benefits (e.g., health insurance, retirement plan) and intangible
rewards (e.g., location, work environment). This perspective allows learners to use all forms of rewards fairly and effectively to enable job satisfaction
and organizational performance.
D356 - HR Technology - HR Technology focuses on the usage of technology for strategic human resource management. The learner will develop
competency in critical skills related to analyzing the value and application of the different types of human resource information systems (HRIS),
managing HRIS implementations, electronic human resource management, and future trends and application of HR technology. HR professionals
must be familiar with HR technology in order to provide effective and efficient HR practices for their organization and recommendations to leadership to
invest in technology. An understanding of HR technology is also an in-demand skill for HR professionals across all industries.
D357 - Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion examines the importance and impact of diversity in organizations through an
understanding of the theoretical, background, and legislative foundations of diversity. This course will explore specific groups and categories of
diversity, as well as global diversity and career paths in diversity.
D358 - Global Human Resource Management - Global Human Resource Management explores the rapidly changing field of international human
resource management (HRM) and examines a global perspective in relation to staffing, personnel management, strategy, and communications in a
cross-cultural context. This course will help learners examine critical skills such as application of international employment law, labor standards, and
ethics, as well as international application of human resources (HR) best practices in areas such as employee relations, global talent management,
and future trends of international HRM. These skills lend to the success of HR professionals working to support organizations that operate in or within
an international context and cross-culturally, as well as expanding the skillsets for those HR professionals interested in seeking a career as a global
HR professional. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D359 - Agile HR - Agile HR explores the concepts of Agile operations and Agile project management from the human resource management
perspective. Learners will focus on design thinking, building value for employees, change management, adaptability, and strategic prioritization as part
of the Agile skills in this course. Adaptability and resilience, while delivering value in a constantly changing world, are all critical skills for successful HR
professionals and leaders.
D360 - HRM Capstone - The learner synthesizes skills from across the human resource management (HRM) industry to demonstrate the ability to
participate in and contribute value to the HR field.
D361 - Business Simulation - This course ties together all the skills and knowledge covered in the business courses and allows the student to prove
their mastery of the competencies by applying them in a simulated business environment. This course will help take the student's knowledge and skills
from the theoretical to applicable.
D362 - Corporate Finance - Corporate Finance is about business structures that set the environment for the day-to-day operations of a business. This
course teaches learners about the common forms of business structures, the factors that business owners consider when they choose which structure
to use, and the roles of shareholders and stakeholders. This course also teaches that managing the financial function involves capitalizing the
company and evaluating capital budget techniques, including those that use the time value of money. Through this course, learners will learn how to
calculate the cost to finance a business using the weighted average cost of capital, how to value stocks and bonds, and how to determine the value of
the firm. The prerequisites for this course include Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting, Finance Skills for Managers, Applied Probability
and Statistics, Principles of Economics, and Financial Statement Analysis.
D363 - Personal Finance - Personal Finance provides learners with an introduction to the discipline of finance from the perspective of the person, or
family, rather than from the viewpoint of a business. In this course, learners will gain an understanding of financial literacy concepts, including personal
budgeting and how to apply financial principles to achieve personal financial goals. Learners will identify various strategies to manage risks, to
enhance postretirement income, and to accumulate and transfer wealth. Topics include record keeping, credit principles, cash flow, investment
philosophy, monetary asset management, housing, and estate planning. This course provides learners with a general overview of personal finance and
acts as a preview course for the finance major. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D364 - Financial Management I - This course covers basic financial management principles primarily targeted to the operations part of a business. The
learner gains an understanding about the basic finance organization in an enterprise in support of the company's primary goal to increase corporate
value for shareholders in an ethical way. Tools a finance professional might use in managing the cash and current assets are discussed along with
cash budgeting and financial strategic planning. The Dupont equation is reviewed as the basis for analyzing and improving the performance of the
enterprise to improve value. The learner will acquire knowledge about how forecasting models and financial instruments are used to optimize the
working capital investment portfolio. Prerequisite for Financial Management I is Corporate Finance.
D365 - Financial Management II - This course covers capital budgeting and long-term funding strategies. The course will delve into more advanced
financial management principles primarily targeted toward corporate investment and capital planning. This course also explores an enterprise’s capital
structure and how equity and long-term debt are used to finance and sustain long-term fixed asset projects. Decision methods, such as net present
value, internal rate of return, and payback period, are discussed as techniques a finance professional might use in identifying and structuring the
optimal capital budget. The learner will gain an understanding about equity capital, will assess financial markets, and will examine the differences in
shareholder classifications and bonds. The course will teach how the dividend policy is devised and discover how the organization uses its corporate
investment strategy to increase not only shareholder value but also corporate value for the shareholder. Prerequisites for Financial Management II are
D196, Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting; D076, Finance Skills for Managers; D363, Personal Finance; D362, Corporate Finance;
D364, Financial Management I; and D366, Financial Statement Analysis.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 274
D366 - Financial Statement Analysis - Financial Statement Analysis discusses the concepts and provides tools for financial analysts to evaluate the
financial elements of the firm as well as external factors to ultimately arrive at a valuation. You will learn a process to analyze data and the concepts
where you can determine the quality of that data. This process provides a structure where ratios and company results are not looked at individually but
as a whole in determining the worth of an enterprise, leading to an analysis-based valuation of the firm.
D367 - Innovation in Finance - Innovation in Finance provides students with an introduction to the technologies and product solutions that have
disrupted the financial services industry. In this course, students will learn about the emerging financial technologies contributing to the evolution of
lending, payments, wealth management, financial planning, and the insurance industry. This course will examine the role financial technology
(FinTech) firms serve as financial disruptors and how these organizations are developed and supported, from start-up to scale. Throughout the course,
students will identify the impact emerging technologies and FinTechs have on businesses, individuals, and society as a whole. Topics include
emerging technology products and services, incubators, accelerator programs, FinTech ecosystems, and technologies that enable and facilitate
disruption by emerging technologies. This course provides students with a general overview of financial innovation and serves as an integral
component of the finance major. D076: Principles of Finance is a prerequisite for this course.
D368 - Enterprise Risk Management - Enterprise Risk Management provides learners with an introduction to the discipline of risk management from
the perspective of an organization rather than from the viewpoint of a person. In this course, learners will learn risk management concepts, including
risk tolerance, risk appetite, and how to utilize governance and compliance resources to achieve an effective risk management strategy. Throughout
this course, learners will determine various strategies to identify, assess, monitor, and control risks and other threats to an organization. Topics include
approaches to risk mitigation, generally accepted frameworks and standards adopted to manage risk, current environmental, societal, and governance
matters of risk interest to an organization, disaster recovery plans, and insurance products.
D369 - Finance Capstone - This course is designed as a synthesis of the knowledge learners have acquired throughout the program. The course
culminates in a performance assessment that requires learners to apply the competencies gained throughout the finance program. In this course,
learners will draw upon the concepts and techniques introduced in the undergraduate finance program to perform a comprehensive financial analysis
of an enterprise. In completing the course, learners will perform analyses with spreadsheet software to simulate a real-world experience of a finance
career professional.
D370 - IT Leadership Foundations - IT Leadership Foundations is an introductory course that provides students with an overview of organizational
structures, communication, and leadership styles specific to information technology in organizations. It also introduces students to some of the power
skills that help make successful IT professionals, including time management, problem solving, and emotional intelligence. Students in this course
explore their own strengths and passions in relation to the field. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D372 - Introduction to Systems Thinking - Introduction to Systems Thinking provides learners with the skills required to engage in a holistic systems-
based approach to analyzing complex problems and solutions. This course introduces the foundational concepts and principles of systems thinking
and provides opportunities to use a systems thinking approach to analyze and evaluate real-world case studies. The course will culminate with using
systems thinking to develop a solution to an authentic complex problem. This course has no prerequisites, but general education math (C955 or C957)
is preferred. Because the course is self-paced, learners may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as needed, with the goal of
demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If learners have no prior knowledge of this material, they can
expect to spend 30 to 40 hours on the course content.
D373 - Marketing in the Digital Era - Marketing in the Digital Era examines the marketing skills needed to be an effective marketer in the 21st century.
This course provides a company and consumer perspective to learn how consumer value is created while achieving organizational goals. Learners will
gain knowledge in the core areas of marketing, including branding and products, consumers, communications, and technology. This course introduces
learners to strategic marketing tools used to develop effective strategies for a relevant target market. Marketing in the Digital Era teaches learners
about emerging topics, such as marketing automation, artificial intelligence, and data-driven communications, as well as skills needed to continue
evolving as a successful marketing professional in the dynamic, ever-changing marketing environment.
D374 - Market Research - Market Research provides learners with a knowledge of the role of marketing research in strategic decision-making.
Marketers need to systematically collect and analyze data to develop insights and make decisions. Learners demonstrate proficiency in the
fundamentals of market research by practicing statistical methods for analyzing and acting on market data. This course teaches sampling techniques,
survey development, data analysis, ethical considerations, and hypothesis testing. Learners will apply their knowledge using a market research
simulation. Emphasis is placed on the interpretation and use of results to demonstrate how to communicate information. In this course, learners will
also develop awareness for continually monitoring emerging and competitive trends given the dynamic digital marketing landscape.
D375 - Marketing Communications and Storytelling - Marketing Communications and Storytelling introduces learners to the principles of integrative
marketing communications with an emphasis on storytelling and creativity. Storytelling skills enable marketers to build relationships by making
connections with their intended audience. Digital storytelling integrates the use of technology to create a cohesive narrative across various platforms
that evokes emotions and feelings about a brand. These efforts can lead to customer acquisition or conversion outcomes. In this course, the creative
storytelling process begins with a clear SMART objective that drives strategy development, the creative direction, and the execution of an integrative
marketing communication campaign. Campaign types, media channels, messages, timelines, and market development considerations are taught
within the context of both digital and traditional application. Learners will also have the opportunity to complete the HubSpot Inbound Marketing
certification to learn industry best practices and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D376 - Product, Price, and Customer Experience - Product, Price, & Customer Experience teaches core marketing concepts used to create integrative
marketing strategies that meet the needs of an organization and its customers. This course teaches topics of new product development, product
management, value proposition, and customer experience management. The voice of the customer is taught to ensure marketers create a customer-
centric culture within their organization to meet the needs, wants, and preference of their target market. Customer experience management practices
are key focal points of this course to ensure meaningful customer interactions across the entire customer journey.
D377 - Digital Marketing Foundations - Digital Marketing Foundations provides learners with knowledge in the dynamic and evolving field of marketing
that uses the internet and digital technologies to reach customers. This course provides foundational knowledge in digital marketing disciplines,
including social media marketing, content marketing, marketing automation, search engine optimization (SEO), paid search (PPC), conversion rate
optimization (CRO), mobile marketing, and web analytics. Learners explore how a digital marketing strategy is developed and executed, along with
how digital marketing is integrated within an organization's overall strategy. This course provides learners with the opportunity to complete the HubSpot
Marketing Software certification to learn marketing automation software that is used in industry to assist marketers in their digital marketing execution.
Emphasis throughout the course is placed on industry best practices, and the course content aligns with the Online Marketing Certified Associate
(OMCA) certification to prepare students for this third-party certification.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 275
D378 - Digital Marketing Science - Digital Marketing Science provides learners with knowledge in the dynamic and evolving field of marketing that uses
the internet and digital technologies to reach customers. This course provides foundational knowledge in digital marketing disciplines, including social
media marketing, email marketing, content marketing, marketing automation, search engine optimization (SEO), paid search (PPC), conversion rate
optimization (CRO), mobile marketing, and web analytics. Learners explore how a digital marketing strategy is developed and executed, along with
how digital marketing is integrated within an organization's overall strategy. This course provides learners with the opportunity to complete the HubSpot
Marketing Software certification to learn marketing automation software that is used in industry to assist marketers in their digital marketing execution.
Emphasis throughout the course is placed on industry best practices, and the course content aligns with the Online Marketing Certified Associate
(OMCA) certification to prepare students for this third-party certification.
D379 - Social Media Marketing - Social Media Marketing teaches learners about social media from a business perspective and how social media can
be used to increase a company’s brand awareness, generate leads, and build meaningful relationships with customers. Throughout this course,
learners will develop a social media marketing strategy across various social platforms to create and distribute valuable and relevant content to
specific audiences. Social Media Marketing teaches learners influencer marketing, employee advocacy, social selling, and social media analytics.
Learners will gain hands-on experience using a simulation to create targeted social media advertisements, perform demographic targeting, implement
social media content promotion strategies, and schedule content. In this course, learners will have the opportunity to complete HubSpot's Social Media
Marketing certification to learn industry best practices in social media marketing and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D380 - Email Marketing - Email Marketing examines the principles and techniques used to effectively manage email marketing campaigns. Email is
used daily in both personal and business settings to communicate with others. In this course, learners will examine industry best practices of how to
use email marketing as a digital strategy to achieve marketing goals. Learners will explore how to design an email marketing strategy, how to use
email marketing for lead generation, how to design a lead nurture campaign, and how automation is used to manage email marketing distribution and
campaigns. This course provides learners with an opportunity to explore how effective email messages are crafted and distributed. Industry best
practices will be explored and learners have the opportunity to complete the HubSpot Email Marketing certification to enhance marketability within the
marketing profession.
D381 - E-Commerce and Marketing Analytics - E-Commerce and Marketing Analytics teaches learners how to sell online, how to reach customers
online, and how to measure campaign and website performance. Businesses and consumers actively engage in buying and selling products over the
internet. Learners gain skills through the practical application of building and optimizing a Shopify website designed to promote and sell products to
customers. The course explores the latest technology platforms with an emphasis on Google applications for hands-on experience. Learners have the
opportunity to complete the Google Search Ads certification to gain skills used in practice and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D382 - Digital Marketing Analytics - Digital Marketing Analytics teaches learners how to identify data sources, collect and analyze data, and manage
marketing performance. Marketing requires an understanding of analytics and application of data to inform strategic decision-making. Through the use
of a digital marketing analytics framework, measurement models, and various digital marketing technology tools, learners will analyze marketing
performance across digital paid, owned, and earned channels. The latest marketing technology tools are explored to measure and optimize results
using data-driven decisions. In this course, learners will have the opportunity to complete the Google Analytics certification to gain technical skills used
in practice and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D383 - Search Engine Optimization - Search Engine Optimization, otherwise known as SEO, teaches on-page, off-page, and technical aspects of SEO
for organically improving ranking and awareness. Digital marketing requires marketers to understand online consumer search behaviors; search
engine optimization (SEO) is a key part of an organization’s digital marketing strategy. This includes processes and best practices used to increase
their visibility in search engines. Learners will discover SEO strategies focusing on website structure, search engines, keyword research and mapping,
and page-level optimization. Learners will gain practical experience using a simulation in which they will optimize ranking and visibility to consumers. In
this course, learners will have the opportunity to complete HubSpot’s SEO certification to learn industry best practices and to enhance marketability
within the marketing profession.
D384 - Marketing Experiential Capstone - Marketing Experiential Capstone is the capstone course for the program that provides learners with real-
world applications to prepare them for the marketing industry. In this course, learners will integrate and apply marketing skills gained throughout the
program by working with an organization on a marketing project. Marketers must effectively manage many relationships throughout their career with
clients and team members in an organization, an agency, or their own marketing firm. This course allows students to apply their technical knowledge
while also developing competencies in effective communication, collaboration, conflict management, project management, and time management
power skills. Learners will explore their professional goals and develop a personal branding strategy to enhance their marketability and to strategically
plan for their marketing career.
D385 - Software Security and Testing - This course prepares you to recognize security vulnerabilities in software, to plan interventions to address
security vulnerabilities where they exist, and to develop and test these interventions. The course covers topics in Web security, permissions, and
identity security; debugging; log file analysis; API security; and encryption and cryptography concepts.
D386 - Hardware and Operating Systems Essentials - Hardware and Operating Systems prepares learners for concepts in software engineering by
providing a foundation of understanding in computer architecture, the history of computing architectures, and operating systems. Additional topics
covered include hardware and software stacks and how to choose appropriate hardware and software solutions to meet both functional and non-
functional business requirements.
D387 - Advanced Java - Advanced Java refines object-oriented programming expertise and skills. You will implement multithreaded, object-oriented
code with the features of Java necessary to develop software that meets business requirements. Additionally, you will determine how to deploy
software applications using cloud services. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the Java language.
D388 - Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations - Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations offers learners an overview
of the use of spreadsheet functions and methods for presenting data within spreadsheets. Learners will have the opportunity to explore features and
uses of MS Excel and apply the tools to situations they may encounter while studying in their program. They will also be introduced to real world uses
and tools to collect, organize and present data.
D389 - Learning Strategies in Higher Education - Learning Strategies in Higher Education provides students with a toolbox of skills that will support
student academic growth as they advance in their academic journey. Students will be introduced to the WGU Library; how to use it and best practices
for research strategies. Students will learn how to be professional in written communication and how to correctly use current APA format. In this
course, students also will learn about setting goals, time-management, study strategies, making and keeping appointments, professional decorum, and
test-taking skills. Learning these skills, strategies, and methods will establish an academic foundation for students to be successful in higher education.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 276
D390 - Introduction to Health and Human Services - Introduction to Health and Human Services explores representative roles and responsibilities of
health and human service professionals and key governmental entities involved in Health and Human Services delivery. The course also examines the
importance of understanding clients’ illnesses and disabilities, building trust with clients, and engagement models that promote client outcomes. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D391 - Healthcare Ecosystems - Healthcare Ecosystems examines how the aims and elements of the healthcare ecosystem can affect client and
patient outcomes. The course explores the main aims of healthcare access, affordability, and quality and how regulators, providers, producers, and
funders (such as payors or purchasers) support those aims. The course also examines insurance regulations and reimbursement procedures that
affect healthcare access and affordability and decision-making processes that support affordable, quality care for clients and communities. There are
no prerequisites for this course.
D393 - History of Healthcare in America - History of Healthcare in America will examine individuals such as Henrietta Lacks, Ryan White, Clara Barton,
and Katie Beckett, who influenced healthcare in the United States, from its inception to the present day. This course examines how specific individuals
and their contributions influenced healthcare delivery and the continued evolution of healthcare, teaching from a system or a value-based care
perspective. The course also focuses on the way healthcare interacted with culture, politics, and society throughout U.S. history and evaluates current
challenges we face in the U.S. healthcare system today. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D394 - Care for Individuals and Families - Care for Individuals and Families focuses on the holistic care of individuals, families, and populations with
multifaceted healthcare needs. This course improves critical thinking and interdisciplinary communication skills to provide information to individuals or
groups in a variety of settings. The focus of the course is on managing the transition of an individual, family, or group through a variety of healthcare
settings, which can include acute care hospitals, extended stay facilities, ambulatory care clinics, home care, outreach, or wellness. This course helps
students develop effective professional communication skills and appropriate behaviors to ensure an individual, family, or group is successful in
meeting its healthcare goals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D396 - Evidence-Based Practice for Health and Human Services - Evidence-Based Practice for Health and Human Services prepares the learner to
apply evidence-based practice (EBP) to inform healthcare recommendations in out-patient, organizational, and other public health settings. Learners
will be introduced to an EBP framework to guide them through the steps of EBP using real world scenarios. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D398 - Introduction to Pharmacology - Introduction to Pharmacology will introduce learners to medication and supplement regulations and safety
protocols. It provides an overview of the use, benefits, effects, and contraindications of commonly used drugs to treat conditions of the cardiovascular,
respiratory, endocrine, nervous, and renal body systems. It also explores the types of anti-infective, antineoplastic, psychotropic drugs, and dietary
supplements and their effects on the body.
D399 - Introduction to Gerontology - Introduction to Gerontology will introduce learners to health issues that are typically associated with the older adult
population so they can become familiar with health challenges this population may face. The learners will gain an understanding of the effects that
policy and legislation have on the older adult population. Emphasis is placed on the importance of maintaining the dignity of older adults by focusing on
cultural and communication needs, and by collaborating on care with older adults, families, and caregivers. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D400 - End-of-Life Care - End-of-Life Care focuses on the Connected Care model as it applies to the final stage of life. This course will explore ethnic
and cultural factors that affect an individual’s response to death and dying. This course will cover planning and implementing ideal interventions to help
individuals, families, and groups cope and agree on a common care goal. This course will also discuss empathy and compassion in healthcare. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D401 - Introduction to Epidemiology - Introduction to Epidemiology provides an overview of the determinants of communicable, viral, and chronic
diseases. Students also will study various other conditions and the impact to public health. Using problem-based inquiry, students will analyze real-
world public health problems by examining the distribution and patterns of data, selecting the methods to gather evidence, interpreting the information,
and analyzing the trends to support decision making. There are no prerequisites to this course, but students are highly encouraged to adhere to the
standard path, whose content is scaffolded to enhance the learning experience of this course.
D402 - Community and Public Health - Community and Public Health provides learners with an understanding of the benefits community health offers
individuals and families. The course also will identify barriers that will impact health and healthcare access, leading to improved community health.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
D404 - Healthcare Values and Ethics - Healthcare Values and Ethics requires students to synthesize an interdisciplinary approach to decision-making
as it applies to health and human services. This course explores the contemporary issues facing health professionals, which include ethics, regulations
and compliance, and handling protected healthcare information. In this course, learners will develop their ability to make ethical decisions in
collaborative care environments and working within a team. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D405 - Financial Resource Management and Healthcare Reimbursement - Financial Resource Management and Healthcare Reimbursement
examines financial practices and reimbursement types within the healthcare industry. This course covers the analysis of regulations required for health
reimbursements. This course also covers the evaluation of effective revenue cycle management, focusing on the organization’s financial stability. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D406 - Health Literacy for the Client and Family - Health Literacy for the Client and Family helps students recognize the importance of health literacy in
overcoming healthcare barriers and creating patient-focused changes through family and patient empowerment. This course demonstrates how
education, research, and technology all integrate and serve as a foundation for students as they create effective resources to improve health literacy
for patients and families. This course helps students become advocates for their patients and their patients’ families. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
D407 - Models of Care and Healthcare Trends - Models of Care and Healthcare Trends is a course for health professionals in a variety of roles in the
health and human services industry, which examines the unique characteristics of healthcare models in the United States and emerging trends created
by social and political drivers. The course explores the evolution of healthcare models from fragmented systems to cohesive, quality-centric, and client-
focused systems. The course also focuses on innovative trends, such as access to care, telemedicine, and subsequent shifts in the continuum of care
as it relates to patient or client outcomes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D408 - Community Relations and Leadership - Community Relations and Leadership focuses on analyzing community health and human services’
needs to create change. As emerging leaders, students will learn to engage in collaborative approaches with various stakeholders to achieve positive
outcomes. This course helps students develop their abilities to interpret community health needs assessments, make decisions, and bring
stakeholders together to advance access to health and human services. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 277
D409 - Health and Human Services Professional Field Experience - The Health and Human Services Professional Field Experience course provides
students with real-world experiences as a health services professional via the virtual world of simulation. The course allows students to conduct their
field experience in a variety of different contexts they will find themselves, depending on their professional career choices in the health services’
industry. All program coursework leads to this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D410 - Health & Human Services Professional Capstone - Health Services Professional Capstone will provide learners the opportunity to demonstrate
their ability to communicate in a professional manner that supports high quality, safe client services. Learners will also engage in career and
professional development within the health and human services industry. All program coursework leads to this course.
D411 - Scripting and Automation - Scripting and Automation is the foundation for automating tasks in operating systems. Students will learn how to
create PowerShell scripts that take tedious and repetitious tasks and turn them into programs that will save time. Students will learn PowerShell, an
automation and configuration management tool based on a command-line shell and .NET Framework.
D412 - Network Analytics and Troubleshooting - Network Analytics and Troubleshooting teaches students to use network monitoring and analytics
tools and practices that are common in the workplace in order to troubleshoot and fix complex computer networks. Students will follow a customer
service model in identifying, classifying, investigating, and repairing network outages or problems. This course is designed as a hands-on experience
where students will implement these techniques in a virtual space in order to produce a secure and functional deployed network.
D413 - Telecomm and Wireless Communications - Telecomm and Wireless Communications explores the science, technologies, and standards that
enable wired and wireless data to be transmitted across different media. Topics include data encoding and decoding, and analog and digital
transmissions via wired, fiber, wireless, cellular, and satellite technologies.
D414 - Cyber Operations Fundamentals - In Cyber Operations Fundamentals, students will learn security concepts, security monitoring, host-based
analysis, network intrusion analysis, and security policies and procedures using Cisco practices and technologies. This course prepares students for
the Understanding Cisco Cybersecurity Operations Fundamentals (CBROPS) 200-201 exam.
D415 - Software Defined Networking - Software Defined Networking (SDN) represents one of the fastest growing areas of network engineering. This
course instructs learners on the SDN paradigm, which encompasses network automation, intent-based networking, and centralized network control.
This course also teaches learners to view networking from a centralized and automated perspective rather than the traditional device-by-device model
that is the legacy practice in many networks.
D416 - DevNet Fundamentals - The DevNet Fundamentals course teaches students how to automate and deploy network solutions in the Cisco
Environment. This course includes APIs, Scripting, Python programming, and software version control. This course prepares students for the Cisco
DevNet Associate (DevNet) 200-901 exam.
D417 - Network Automation and Deployment - Network Automation and Deployment leverages previous experience in networking, scripting, and
programming with the SDN paradigm. Students will create programs and scripts that automate network configuration across large networks. This
course is designed as a hands-on experience where students will implement these techniques in a virtual space in order to produce a secure and
functional deployed network.
D418 - BSNES Capstone Project - The BSNES Capstone Project consists of learners submitting a network design proposal, a virtual network
implementation, and a post-implementation report describing their experience developing and implementing the capstone project. The capstone project
and scope must be presented and approved by the capstone instructor prior to implementation in the virtual environment.
D419 - Implementing and Administering Networking Solutions - Implementing and Administering Networking Solutions expands on basic networking
concepts and covers advanced network engineering skills including: Switch and router configuration, trouble shooting and maintenance on wired and
wireless networks, Security, network automation and introduces Software Defined Networking. This course prepares students for the Cisco Certified
Network Associate (CCNA) certification exam CCNA-200-301.
D420 - Discrete Math: Logic - Discrete Math-Logic is designed to help students develop competence in the use of logic and proofs and Boolean
Algebra and Boolean functions. Applied Probability and Statistics and Applied Algebra are prerequisites for this course.
D421 - Discrete Math: Functions and Relations - Discrete Math: Functions and Relations is designed to help students develop competence in the use
of abstract discrete structures fundamental to systems networking. In particular, this course will introduce students to set theory, finite sequences,
series, and relations. Discrete Math: Logic, Applied Probability and Statistics, and Applied Algebra are prerequisites for this course.
D422 - Discrete Math: Algorithms and Cryptography - Discrete Math: Algorithms and Cryptography addresses discrete computational methods,
including searching and sorting algorithms, big-O estimates, and number theory and cryptography. Discrete Math Functions and Relations is a
prerequisite for this course.
D424 - Software Engineering Capstone - The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one
project.
D425 - Introduction to Chemistry - In Introduction to Chemistry, learners will discover the impact of chemistry on everyday life. They’ll learn about the
structure of the atom, study periodic trends, analyze the structure of molecules and their properties, and describe the importance of common functional
groups within the periodic table. They’ll identify balanced chemical equations, describe types of chemical reactions and predict their products, and
examine intermolecular forces and describe their impact on the properties of substances. Finally, they’ll study the properties of acids, bases, and buffer
systems, and properties unique to liquids and gases.
D426 - Data Management - Foundations - Data Management Foundations offers an introduction in creating conceptual, logical and physical data
models. Students gain skills in creating databases and tables in SQL-enabled database management systems, as well as skills in normalizing
databases. No prerequisites are required for this course.
D427 - Data Management - Applications - Data Management - Applications covers conceptual data modeling and introduces MySQL. Students will
learn how to create simple to complex SELECT queries, including subqueries and joins, and how to use SQL to update and delete data. Topics
covered in this course include exposure to MySQL; creating and modifying databases, tables, views, foreign keys and primary keys (FKs and PKs),
and indexes; populating tables; and developing simple Select-From-Where (SFW) queries to complex 3+ table join queries. The following course is a
prerequisite: Data Management - Foundations.
D428 - Design Thinking for Business - Design Thinking for Business examines the design thinking methodology for solving complex problems. This
course introduces students to design thinking as a human-centered approach to problem-solving and innovation that draws upon empathy and
creativity to develop solutions to complex problems. Students will explore the principles and stages of design thinking and analyze the use of design
thinking in developing solutions through real-world scenarios.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 278
D429 - Introduction to AI for Computer Scientists - Introduction to AI for Computer Scientists provides an overview of critical terminology and key
concepts for artificial intelligence (AI). The course explores the history and evolution of AI, elements of code, and the process for understanding
algorithmic approaches to AI. The course presents topics of bias, ethical issues, and security concerns. Contextualized examples offer students an
opportunity to see these concepts in professional scenarios; identifying issues within code, understanding the steps within an AI design, and
understanding the different features, limitations, and benefits for a multitude of AI applications.
D430 - Fundamentals of Information Security - This course lays the foundation for understanding terminology, principles, processes, and best practices
of information security at local and global levels. It further provides an overview of basic security vulnerabilities and countermeasures for protecting
information assets through planning and administrative controls within an organization. This course has no prerequisites.
D431 - Digital Forensics in Cybersecurity - Digital Forensics in Cyber Security examines the relationships between incident categories, evidence
handling, and incident management. This course teaches students to identify consequences associated with cyber threats and security laws using a
variety of tools to recognize and recover from unauthorized, malicious activities and how to seek evidence that reveals who, what, when, where, and
how threats compromise information.
D432 - HR Compliance and Employee Relations - HR Compliance and Employee Relations provides students with an in-depth understanding of the
relevant laws, regulations, and ethical issues related to human resource (HR) compliance and risk management. It also explores how to resolve and
improve employee relations issues to maintain a positive organizational culture in a diverse workplace. Topics include business laws and ethical
considerations, employment and labor laws and regulations, and employee relations strategies to build and maintain a positive, healthy, and respectful
work environment.
D433 - Talent Acquisition and Development - Talent Acquisition and Development provides an in-depth look at the strategies used to attract, retain,
and develop qualified talent in an organization. Students discover how to hire the right talent to meet the needs of the organization, how to orient and
onboard new employees, and how to ensure employee excellence through learning and development and performance management strategies.
D434 - Future Focused Total Rewards - Future Focused Total Rewards examines discretionary and legally required approaches to compensation and
benefits practices that compose an organization’s total rewards system. Students explore how to develop and communicate the components of a
competitive total rewards strategy to prospective and existing employees while adhering to employment laws and aligning to an organization’s strategic
goals and culture.
D435 - HR Technology and People Analytics - HR Technology and People Analytics introduces students to the types of human resource information
systems (HRISs), applications, and platforms used to capture and manage employee data and the analytics used to make strategic decisions based
on that data. Students will discover how to plan for the implementation of new human resource (HR) technology, present the plan to stakeholders to
gain buy-in and support for the change, and train employees in the new systems. Students will also gain an understanding of how to pull and use data
and people analytics for effective storytelling, decision-making, and leadership influence.
D436 - Inclusive Workplace Culture Capstone - Inclusive Workplace Culture Capstone provides students with the opportunity to work through the
SHRM Inclusive Workplace Culture specialty credential course content, studying and analyzing how human resource (HR) professionals can integrate
an inclusive approach to all HR functions such as talent acquisition, training and development, total rewards, and more. Students will complete a
capstone project that synthesizes an inclusive approach to strategic HR practices for an organization to create an environment of true belonging for all
employees, while simultaneously being prepared to complete the SHRM Inclusive Workplace Culture exam independently to earn a specialty
credential and badge from SHRM.
D439 - Foundations of Nursing - Foundations of Nursing introduces students to the nursing process, scope of practice, clinical judgment model and
fundamental concepts of holistic nursing practice that will serve the needs of diverse adult patients across the lifespan. The course will focus on
medical terminology, legal/ethical issues, basic care and comfort, oxygenation, safety & infection control, health and wellness, fluid & electrolytes,
death and dying, therapeutic communication, patient education & advocacy.
Co-requisites: C957, D202, D236, D441, D442, and D443.
Prerequisite Courses: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms.
D440 - Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science - The health and wellness through nutritional science course prepares nursing students to
learn the basic principles of nutrition, nutrition throughout the life cycle, nutrition related to weight management and physical health, and nutrition
related to patient conditions. Students will learn how nutrition influences a patient's overall health status across the life span.
D441 - Medical Dosage Calculations and Pharmacology - Medical Dosage Calculations and Pharmacology introduces an in-depth nursing approach to
medication administration concepts, legal & ethical principles, pharmacological principles, variety of drug classifications, complementary & alternative
therapies needed to care for diverse patients across the lifespan.
D442 - Basic Nursing Skills - Basic Nursing Skills will introduce foundational principles of nursing process and the clinical judgement model, health
assessment techniques, and communication skills needed to care for diverse adult patients across the lifespan. Skills will focus on the concepts of vital
signs, medication administration, infection control, nutrition, elimination, mobility, oxygenation, and skin integrity. Students are required to be
successful on lab assessments to progress to Adult Health1 clinical. Co-requisites: D443 and D444
D443 - Health Assessment - The Health Assessment course focuses on concepts and skills necessary to collect a comprehensive health history and
perform a head-to-toe and focused assessments on diverse patients across the lifespan. The emphasis will be to differentiate between normal and
abnormal findings of various body systems such as the following: integumentary, head & neck, eyes & ears, respiratory, cardiovascular,
gastrointestinal, renal, musculoskeletal, nervous, and reproductive systems. Corequisites are D442 and D444.
D444 - Adult Health I - Adult Health I prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high quality medical surgical nursing care for diverse adult
populations across the lifespan in various health care settings. This includes health promotion and management of common conditions. This course
explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcome. This course will focus on medical surgical nursing care related to head &
neck, skin, inflammation, infection, fluid & electrolytes, respiratory, gastrointestinal, hepatic, genitourinary, and reproductive systems. The nursing
process and the clinical judgement model will be used as the foundation to navigate the management of care for patients. A variety of populations and
settings are used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D443.
D445 - Intermediate Nursing Skills - Intermediate Nursing Skills will build on basic nursing skill concepts to develop intermediate medical surgical
nursing practice, including peripheral intravenous access, blood administration, airway management, perioperative and postoperative care, and wound
care management. The course focuses on nursing care of both adult and pediatric populations, including a focus on the care of women and the
maternal care setting. Students will use simulation to apply the clinical judgment model to various diverse populations in various care settings.
Students are required to be successful on course performance assessments to progress to Adult Health II clinical. Co-requisites: D446 & D447
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 279
D446 - Adult Health II - Adult Health II prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high quality medical surgical nursing care for diverse adult
populations across the lifespan in various health care settings. This includes health promotion and management of both acute and chronic conditions.
This course explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcome. This course will focus on medical surgical nursing care related
to perioperative nursing, neurological, hematological, renal, cardiovascular, endocrine, and musculoskeletal systems. The nursing process and clinical
judgement model will be used for clinical decision-making and fostering health promotion and maintenance. A variety of populations and settings are
used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D447.
Prerequisite Courses: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms and D445.
D447 - Women's and Children's Nursing - Women's and Children's Nursing prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high-quality nursing care,
pharmacological care, and emotional support for diverse women and pediatric populations. This course focuses on antepartum, intrapartum,
postpartum, neonatal clinical nursing, and women's health. This course builds on growth and development of children, nursing care for children and
adolescents with acute and chronic alterations of the respiratory, cardiovascular, hematologic, endocrine, reproductive, gastrointestinal, renal,
neurologic, musculoskeletal, and integumentary systems. This course explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcomes in
women and pediatric populations. A variety of populations and settings are used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisites: D445 and D446.
Prerequisites: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms.
D449 - Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing - Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high-quality care
using modern concepts of psychiatric and mental health nursing. The student will utilize therapeutic communication to a diverse population of patients
including those with maladaptive behaviors through the utilization of the nursing process by applying the principles of psychiatric and mental
healthcare and the clinical judgement model. This course explores the nurse-client relationship, pharmacological management, cognitive conditions,
bipolar and thought conditions, personality disorders, substance abuse, eating disorders, and self-harm. A variety of populations and settings are used
in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisites: D450.
Prerequisite Courses: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms and D445.
D450 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing - Community health and population focused nursing concentrates on the theory and
concepts of community, public and global health nursing that impact diverse communities. Students learn the role of the community health nurse, learn
to assess the community’s healthcare needs, available resources, epidemiology, substance abuse, disaster management, and how social
determinants of health impact community and public health risk and outcomes. A variety of populations and settings are used in the experiential
learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D449.
D453 - Advanced Nursing Skills - Advanced Nursing Skills will build on intermediate skills and focus on advanced skills related to critical care nursing
practice, including closed chest drainage systems, electrocardiograms (EKGs), palliative care, ventilators, disaster management and transition to
practice. Clinical judgement and problem solving are emphasized in the assessment of critically ill patients and prioritizing patients’ needs and nursing
interventions. Students are required to be successful on course performance assessments to progress to Adult Health III clinical. Co-requisites: D454
& D455
D454 - Adult Health III - Adult Health III prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high quality complex medical surgical nursing care for diverse
adult populations across the lifespan in various health care settings. This includes health promotion and management of both acute and chronic
conditions. This course explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcome. This course will focus on caring for patients with
potentially life-threatening alterations of the respiratory, cardiovascular, endocrine, and neurologic, renal, hepatic systems, end of life care (palliative),
shock and transplants. Clinical judgment and problem solving are emphasized in the assessment of critically ill patients and prioritizing patient ‘s needs
and nursing interventions. A variety of populations and settings are used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisites: D455
D455 - Professional Nursing Role Transition - The Professional Nursing Role Transition course builds on the previous knowledge gained in all other
nursing courses. The emphasis of this course is placed on the personal and professional strategies needed to make the transition from student to
graduate nurse by highlighting the role and skills of bedside nurse leaders. The course will review content related to leadership and management,
foundational nursing, advanced clinical, medical surgical, pediatric, women’s, and mental health concepts. The students will complete a professional
portfolio that showcases their accomplishments, knowledge, and skills throughout the program. A variety of populations and settings are used in the
experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D454
D458 - Introduction to Systems Thinking for Health Professionals - Introduction to Systems Thinking for Health Professionals provides learners with the
skills required to engage in a holistic systems-based approach to analyzing complex problems and solutions. This course introduces the foundational
concepts and principles of systems thinking and provides opportunities to use a systems thinking approach to analyze and evaluate real-world case
studies. The course will culminate with using systems thinking to develop a solution to an authentic complex problem. This course has no
prerequisites, but general education math (C955 or C957) is preferred. Because the course is self-paced, learners may move through the material as
quickly or as slowly as needed, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If learners have no
prior knowledge of this material, they can expect to spend 30 to 40 hours on the course content.
D459 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Applications - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Applications provides learners with the skills required
to engage in a holistic systems-based approach to analyzing complex problems and solutions. This course introduces the foundational concepts and
principles of systems thinking and provides opportunities to use a systems thinking approach to analyze and evaluate real-world case studies. The
course will culminate with using systems thinking to develop a solution to an authentic complex problem. This course has no prerequisites, but general
education math (C955 or C957) is preferred. Because the course is self-paced, learners may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as
needed, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If learners have no prior knowledge of this
material, they can expect to spend 30 to 40 hours on the course content.
D464 - Managing Operations - Managing Operations examines management systems and processes to improve operating efficiency. In this course,
students will be introduced to operations management concepts and will learn how analysis of these systems and processes can improve operating
efficiency across the organization. Students will explore ethical and sustainable operations management strategies and will analyze operating
processes for continuous improvement.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 280
D465 - Data Applications - Data Applications examines the principles and techniques used to effectively analyze data to answer questions and
provides foundational knowledge of R and RStudio environments. This course teaches students how to aggregate; how to format and adjust data using
spreadsheets and SQL; how to use formulas and functions to perform calculations in SQL; how to organize, transform, clean, and analyze data in R;
and how to create visualizations in R Markdown. Upon completion of this course, students will earn the WGU Business Analysis Professional
certificate and may also choose to earn the Google Data Analytics Professional certificate.
D466 - Analyzing and Visualizing Data - Analyzing and Visualizing Data examines the principles and techniques used to effectively analyze data to
answer questions and share data through the art of visualization. This course explores how to use formulas and functions to perform calculations, how
to design and create visualizations and dashboards in Tableau, and how to build an effective data presentation that considers limitations associated
with the data and best practices for audience considerations. This course provides students with an opportunity to demonstrate an understanding of
what is involved in the conversion and formatting of data and apply the use of functions and syntax to create SQL queries for combining data from
multiple database tables. The course D467: Exploring Data, which also includes Google certificate materials, is a prerequisite.
D467 - Exploring Data - Exploring Data builds proficiency with data, including the organization, preparation, transformation, cleaning, and verification of
data. This course examines how to apply critical thinking, spreadsheet, and structured query language techniques to data management and decision-
making. Students may simultaneously work toward the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate and the WGU Business Analysis Certificate. The
course D468: Discovering Data, which also includes Google certificate materials, is a prerequisite.
D468 - Discovering Data - Discovering Data introduces analytical concepts, processes, and tools used in the field of business analytics. This course
explores the importance of asking effective questions to collect the right data. Students will examine using analytical thinking to organize, analyze, and
share data to drive decision-making. This course provides students the opportunity to work toward the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate
and the WGU Business Analysis Certificate. Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations is a prerequisite for this course.
D469 - Quality, Continuous Improvement, and Lean Six Sigma - Quality, Continuous Improvement, and Lean Six Sigma examines how organizations
can measure and improve the quality of products, goods, and services. Students consider different dimensions and characteristics of quality and are
introduced to a variety of strategies and tools that are used to manage quality and measure performance. This course explores how to apply
continuous improvement processes by analyzing the Lean Six Sigma DMAIC (define, measure, analyze, improve, and control) method. C955: Applied
Probability and Statistics is a prerequisite for this course.
D470 - Transportation, Logistics, and Distribution - Transportation, Logistics, and Distribution examines logistics and the planning and management of
transportation and distribution. This course introduces requirements and risks, facilities and inventory, strategy and supply chain synchronicity,
efficiencies and costs, and laws and regulations related to transportation, distribution, and logistics. Students will explore warehousing and warehouse
management, inventory and logistics management, distribution, and supply chain management from the lens of transportation, logistics, and
distribution. This course is aligned with the Certified in Logistics, Transportation, and Distribution (CLTD) certification from the Association for Supply
Chain Management.
D471 - Global Supply Chain Management - Global Supply Chain Management introduces a broad range of supply chain management concepts.
Students consider supply chains and supply chain management strategies, including planning and design, risk management, and global and
sustainable supply chain networks and management. Students learn about managing important relationships and their interdependencies. Students
also investigate how supply chain costs affect consumers, quality and continuous improvement, and the role of the sales and operations planning
(S&OP) process. Portions of this course are aligned with aspects of ASCM APICS certification programs, namely the CSCP and the CPIM.
D472 - 21st Century Operations and Supply Chain - 21st Century Operations and Supply Chain explores modern issues in supply chain management.
Building on the supply chain landscape introduced in prior courses, this course addresses more complex supply chain and operations issues. The
course examines how disruptions transform operations and the supply chain and how to use qualitative and quantitative data to evaluate solutions.
D473 - Solutions Design and Visualization Capstone - Solution Design and Visualization Capstone guides learners to synthesize and apply the skills
learned throughout their business analytics, operations, and supply chain education. This course gives learners the opportunity to solve challenges in
procurement, sales and operations planning (S&OP) processes, distribution, logistics and transportation faced by a fictional company. In the course
capstone project, learners play the role of an operations and supply chain manager or consultant, redesigning the existing supply chain to implement
lean processes and using Six Sigma methodology to improve efficiency and allow the company to bring new products or services to market faster.
Learners in this course address a real operations and supply chain problem and design solutions, which they communicate in a report and a
presentation. At the end of the course, learners will have an authentic experience they can add to their portfolio and show employers. Working through
this capstone helps learners to understand how their knowledge interacts with real situations and how roles fit within the industry. The D472: 21st
Century Operations and Supply Chain course is a prerequisite.
D479 - User Experience Design - User Experience Design explores multiple tools and techniques used in user experience design. Students are
presented with an in-depth view of activities involved in the design of user experience and have the opportunity to create several deliverables including
persona profiles, information architectures, and prototypes of different levels of fidelity. In addition, the course also covers usability testing and the
evaluation of quantitative and qualitative data derived from these and other experiments.
D480 - Software Design and Quality Assurance - Software Design and Quality Assurance applies a QA focus to every phase of the software
development life cycle. This course investigates best practices for quality analysis, quality planning, and testing strategies as they pertain to the
everyday practice of software development. Students will come to understand how their work fits into the bigger picture: how QA, testing, and code-
writing practices interact within specific process models; the potential impact of new code on existing code or on other applications; the importance of
usability and the influence users have on the ultimate success of an application. Students will explore test plans, test cases, unit tests, integration
tests, regression tests, usability tests, and test and review tools.
D481 - Security Foundations - Security Foundations lays the foundation for understanding terminology, principles, processes, and information security
best practices at local and global levels. This course further provides an overview of networking components, network security vulnerabilities, and
countermeasures for protecting information assets through planning and administrative controls within an organization.
D482 - Secure Network Design - Secure Network Design provides the foundational knowledge and skills to design secure physical and logical network
architectures for wired and wireless networks. Course topics include the characteristics of a secure network, techniques to securely configure network
devices, network segmentation strategies, root cause analysis, and mitigation approaches based on industry best practices. The course also offers
hands-on experience in network vulnerability analysis and network configuration.
D483 - Security Operations - Security Operations provides learners with the fundamental skills to handle and respond to computer security incidents in
an information system. The course addresses various underlying principles and techniques for detecting and responding to current and emerging
computer security threats. The course also helps learners explore strategies to leverage intelligence and threat detection techniques, analyze and
interpret data, identify and address vulnerabilities, and suggest preventative measures. Methods are introduced to effectively respond to and recover
from cybersecurity incidents, evaluate risk assessment methodologies, and apply incident handling laws and policies.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 281
D484 - Penetration Testing - Penetration Testing introduces learners to the skills necessary to perform penetration testing and vulnerability
management within an organization. The course covers widely used penetration testing techniques and tools that focus on planning and scoping,
information gathering, vulnerability identification, and attacks and exploits. In addition, it offers hands-on experience and a focus on penetration testing
engagement plans.
D485 - Cloud Security - Cloud Security prepares learners to design solutions for cloud-based platforms and operations that maintain data availability
while protecting the confidentiality and integrity of information. Course topics include cloud service models, deployment methods, identity and access
management (IAM) strategies, auditing and monitoring strategies, assessing and mitigating common cloud security threats, and managing compliance
and regulation requirements. The course also offers hands-on experience deploying and assessing IAM controls in a cloud environment.
D486 - Governance, Risk, and Compliance - Governance, Risk, and Compliance provides learners with advanced skills and knowledge to authorize
and maintain information systems utilizing various risk management frameworks. The course focuses on the strategic and long-term alignment of an
organization's information security program to regulatory requirements and organizational policies. Course topics include compliance and regulatory
requirements, data classification and prioritization, security and privacy controls, compliance audits and remediation, and risk management plans.
D487 - Secure Software Design - Secure Software Design focuses on the variety of elements needed to address and implement secure software
acquisition and development throughout the software development life cycle (SDLC). The course addresses people, technology, tools, and processes
to design and develop consistently secure applications from start to finish. Additionally, it underscores the importance and value of the Defense in
Depth principle across the entire SDLC. The course also introduces techniques to adapt common security activities to modern software development
practices such as Agile and DevSecOps.
D488 - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering provides learners with advanced skills and
knowledge to design secure enterprise architecture solutions. The course focuses on assessing cybersecurity readiness and implementing enterprise-
wide solutions to protect data and comply with an organization's policies and frameworks. Course topics include integrating software applications,
applying enterprise data security controls, evaluating cloud and virtualization solutions, analyzing threats and vulnerabilities, and responding to
incidents.
D489 - Cybersecurity Management - Cybersecurity Management prepares learners to develop organizational information security programs and
policies that follow recognized standards, comply with all governing laws and regulations, and meet the needs of the company culture and
management organization. The course covers how to perform risk management institutionally, how to manage compliance to information security
requirements, and how to delegate compliance, risk, and security functions to specific roles within the organization. It also helps learners apply
strategic decision-making as companies adapt to new technologies, processes, and people practices related to processing, managing, and protecting
information resources.
D490 - Cybersecurity Graduate Capstone - The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance (MSCSIA) Capstone project allows
learners to demonstrate their capability to establish a durable cybersecurity and information assurance program. The capstone project challenges
learners to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project that addresses a significant real-world cybersecurity problem.
D491 - Introduction to Analytics - Analytics is the creative use of data and statistical modeling to tell a compelling story that not only drives strategic
action, but also results in business value. Introduction to Analytics examines data analytics as a discipline and the various roles and functions within
the field. You will expand your knowledge about what analytics is and develop a basic understanding of statistics, analysis, problem solving, and
programming concepts.
D492 - Data Analytics - Applications - Data Analytics Applications covers advanced concepts across the various phases of the data product lifecycle.
You will learn to choose and apply appropriate techniques for data management and data manipulation, statistical analysis, visualization, and data
governance concepts to satisfy business needs.
D493 - Scripting and Programming - Applications - Scripting and Programming - Applications for undergraduates explores the various aspects of the
Python programming language by examining its syntax, the development environment, and tools and techniques to solve some real-world problems.
Introduction to Programming in Python is a prerequisite for this course.
D494 - Data and Information Governance - Data and Information Governance provides learners with the knowledge that establishing rules of
engagement, policies, procedures, and data stewardship is essential to exercising organizational control over—and extracting maximum value
from—its data assets. Good data governance helps an organization lower costs, create efficiencies, and achieve its strategic goals and objectives.
Data governance provides a framework for properly managing information across the entire data lifecycle and establishes strategies in support of
disaster recovery and continuity of operations. This course will prepare IT professionals to assist their organization in the definition and implementation
of best practices related to the planning and implementation of managed systems that meet business, technical, security, auditing, disaster recovery,
and business continuity requirements.
D495 - Big Data Foundations - Big Data Foundations provides an in-depth introduction to big data concepts, terminology, and applications. You will
learn the risks and challenges of working with extremely large data sets. The course introduces tools and techniques for working with big data. The
course covers selection criteria for relational and non-relational data architectures and cloud-native data storage concepts. It also provides a historical
perspective on the evolution of big data storage approaches. Data warehousing, data lakes, and data lakehouses are introduced, and design principles
for each are explained. Learners design aspects of big data architecture and big data processing to address given business requirements.
D496 - Introduction to Data Science - Introduction to Data Science introduces the data analysis process and common statistical techniques necessary
for the analysis of data. Students will ask questions that can be solved with a given data set, set up experiments, use statistics and data wrangling to
test hypotheses, find ways to speed up their data analysis code, make their data set easier to access, and communicate their findings.
D497 - Data Wrangling - Data Wrangling elaborates on concepts covered in Introduction to Data Science, helping to develop skills crucial to the field of
data science and analysis. It explores how to wrangle data from diverse sources and shape it to enable data-driven applications—a common activity in
many data scientists' routine. Topics covered include gathering and extracting data from widely-used data formats, assessing the quality of data, and
exploring best practices for data cleaning.
D498 - Data Analysis with R - Data Analysis with R focuses on exploratory data analysis (EDA) utilizing R. EDA is an approach for summarizing and
visualizing the important characteristics of a data set. In this course you will develop skills in R programming to acquire and load data sets, create
appropriate statistical summaries of data, and create data visualizations to help uncover and communicate insights about data using R.
D499 - Machine Learning - Machine Learning presents the end-to-end process of investigating data through a machine learning lens. Topics covered
include: supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms, features that best represent data, commonly-used machine learning algorithms, and
methods for evaluating the performance of machine learning algorithms.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 282
D500 - Data Visualization - Data Visualization covers the application of design principles, human perception, color theory, and effective storytelling in
the context of data visualization. It addresses presenting data to others and advancing technology with visualization tools enabling data scientists to
share their findings and support organizational decision-making processes. Additionally, this course focuses on how to visually encode and present
data to an audience.
D501 - Machine Learning DevOps - Machine Learning DevOps focuses on the software engineering fundamentals needed to successfully streamline
the deployment of data and machine learning models in a production-level environment. Students will build the DevOps skills required to automate the
various aspects and stages of machine learning model building and monitoring over time.
D502 - Data Analytics Capstone - The Data Analytics Undergraduate Capstone challenges students to demonstrate competencies supporting all BSDA
program outcomes. Students will identify an organizational need, plan and develop a data analytics product to serve that need, and document the
process in a project proposal and data project report.
D509 - Innovative Solutions in Healthcare Leadership - Innovative Solutions in Healthcare Leadership provides an opportunity to explore healthcare
innovations through comparison research, the application of disruptive leadership concepts, and advanced technology applications. Students will apply
strategic innovation concepts to improve critical patient dissatisfiers in a healthcare setting. This course has no prerequisites.
D510 - Collaborative Leadership - Collaborative Leadership provides an opportunity to apply collaborative leadership skills to better serve diverse
communities. Students will develop a process innovation with community leaders in a diverse population emphasizing a cultural competence. This
course has no prerequisites.
D511 - Healthcare Models and Systems - Healthcare Models and Systems provides an opportunity to analyze the evolution of healthcare models and
systems. Students will apply administration strategies to manage organizational changes and community affiliations. This course has no prerequisites.
D512 - Quality Improvement in Healthcare - Quality Improvement in Healthcare provides an opportunity to apply quality improvement principles and
strategies in a high-volume Level 1 trauma center. Students will apply disruptive leadership strategies to implement quality-improvement procedures in
a fast-paced healthcare environment. This course has no prerequisites.
D513 - Healthcare Financial Management - Healthcare Financial Management provides an opportunity to apply strategic change management
principles through the application of fiscal management and data analysis in a healthcare environment. The student will examine strategies to increase
value, sustainability, and productivity in a patient-centric environment. This course has no prerequisites.
D514 - Analytical Methods of Healthcare Leaders - Analytical Methods of Healthcare Leaders provides an opportunity to explore the use of predictive
analysis and forecasting techniques to develop evidence-based decision making. Students will apply quality research and analytical analysis to inform
decisions in a health management environment. This course has no prerequisites.
D515 - Enterprise Risk Management - Enterprise Risk Management provides an opportunity to examine risk exposure and response, and risk
mitigation within an integrated care delivery model. Students will apply practices to identify risks and develop sustainable corrective action plans. This
course has no prerequisites.
D516 - Healthcare Information Technology - Healthcare Information Technology provides an opportunity to examine the use of technology in data
analysis and applications to improve outcomes in a patient-centered care environment. Students will apply strategic analysis to improve technology
function and interoperability within a community healthcare cooperative. This course has no prerequisites.
D517 - Population Healthcare Coordination - Population Healthcare Coordination provides an opportunity to examine population healthcare strategies
and community collaboration to impact at-risk demographic groups. Students will apply strategic change management and data analysis to develop
health initiatives for a large-scale population. This course has no prerequisites.
D518 - Challenges in Community Healthcare - Challenges in Community Healthcare provides an opportunity to explore organizational leadership and
administration as well as problem-solving methods to collaborate with community leaders in a high-stakes healthcare environment. Students will apply
collaborative leadership skills and evidence-based practices as they develop community relationships to resolve critical issues in community health
management. This course has no prerequisites.
D519 - Integrated Healthcare Leadership and Administration - Integrated Healthcare Leadership and Administration provides an opportunity to
examine integrated healthcare delivery systems and person-centered care models for innovative solutions to critical challenges. The student will apply
principles of collaborative leadership, disruptive change, and catalyst evaluation to develop a holistic integrated healthcare system. This course has no
prerequisites.
D520 - Healthcare Leadership and Administration Capstone - The capstone is a student-designed project intended to illustrate your ability to effect
change in the industry and demonstrate competence in all five program outcomes: transformational leader, value innovator, tactical manager, analyst,
and integrated systems expert. Students are required to collaborate with leaders in the healthcare industry to identify opportunities for improvement in
healthcare, propose a solution, and perform a business analysis to evaluate its feasibility. In addition, the capstone encourages work in the healthcare
industry that will be showcased in the student’s collection of work and help solidify professional relationships in the industry. This course has no
prerequisites.
D522 - Python for IT Automation - Python for IT Automation covers the fundamentals of the Python language and its features to control program flow,
inform decisions, and automate IT tasks and processes. The course emphasizes a systematic approach to solving problems and the application of
programming logic to administer secure, scalable, and resilient IT networks and systems.
D545 - Healthcare Administration Evolution, Systems, and Leadership - Healthcare Administration Evolution, Systems, and Leadership provides an in-
depth exploration of the U.S. healthcare system. The course covers the system’s evolution, key stakeholders, business principles, leadership roles,
health equity issues, and the transformative influence of technology in healthcare administration. The learner will obtain tools necessary to drive
positive change within the healthcare landscape through ample opportunity for strategic thinking and problem solving.
D546 - Healthcare Policy and Governance - Healthcare Policy and Governance provides a comprehensive exploration of healthcare administration,
focusing on healthcare policies, regulations, and governance and their impact on operations, administration, and community health services. Students
develop skills to evaluate implications, assess regulatory frameworks, and comprehend legal and ethical considerations in healthcare administration
and community health services. The course equips students with the knowledge to navigate the healthcare system, make informed decisions, and
contribute to high-quality care and patient outcomes.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 283
D547 - Evidence-Based Healthcare Administration - Evidence-Based Healthcare Administration is an immersive course that equips students with the
knowledge and skills needed to apply evidence-based practices in the field of healthcare administration. Students will gain a thorough understanding of
how to use data analytics, research methodologies, and evidence-based decision-making principles. The course covers essential areas, such as
machine learning, artificial intelligence, data collection instruments, and statistical and analytical tools. Ethical considerations, privacy regulations, and
effective communication skills are also highlighted, preparing students to make informed decisions, advocate for evidence-based strategies, and
contribute to improved patient care, better outcomes, and sustainable healthcare practices.
D548 - Emergency Management and Planning in Healthcare - Emergency Management and Planning in Healthcare equips students with the
necessary knowledge and skills to effectively manage emergencies in healthcare organizations. Students will learn to assess, plan, and respond to
emergencies, ensuring the safety of patients and staff. This course covers evaluating the impact of emergencies, identifying vulnerabilities, and
assessing risks, with a focus on crisis communication and ethical considerations specific to healthcare. Students will gain insights into leadership’s role
in decision-making, coordination, and resource allocation during critical situations, while also exploring public health, community resilience,
collaboration, and the integration of technology. Additionally, the course addresses the influence of cultural factors and principles of mental health
support in enhancing emergency management capabilities.
D549 - Exploring Emerging Trends in Healthcare Administration - Exploring Emerging Trends in Healthcare Administration examines the impact of
trends on healthcare administration, patient care, and industry transformation. With a focus on analyzing and synthesizing complex information related
to healthcare, learners evaluate how advancements and innovations are transforming the healthcare industry and how to anticipate and adapt to
trends as they appear. Introducing the practical implications of integrating Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) principles within the healthcare system,
learners will explore: advocating for equitable healthcare practices, developing strategies to reduce health disparities, and promoting culturally
sensitive and inclusive care for diverse populations. By understanding how to track and evaluate trends, learners will be prepared to navigate and
contribute to the evolving landscape of healthcare administration.
D550 - Ethics for Accountants - Ethics for Accountants examines standards of professional conduct and business practices required for accounting
professionals. This course will discuss the necessity of applying ethical principles in the application of accounting principles, tax preparation, and attest
services to clients. Moreover, the learner will explore how to apply ethical reasoning, various cognitive processes, professional skepticism and ethical
decision-making related to situations involving corporate governance and moral dilemmas. Finally, this course will include discussions of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ (AICPA) Statements on Standards for Tax Services and the Institute of Management Accountants’ (IMA)
Statement of Ethical Professional Practices.
D551 - Fraud and Forensic Accounting - Fraud and Forensic Accounting provides learners with an in-depth understanding of how fraud and forensic
investigations are part of the accounting profession. This course covers the various types of fraud and their impact on organizations, as well as the
detection, investigation, and prevention of fraud. This course also introduces the role of forensic accountants in the legal system and the use of
forensic accounting techniques in financial investigations. The course will include scenarios and hands-on exercises to provide learners with practical
experience in detecting and investigating fraud.
D552 - Data Analytics for Accountants I - Data Analytics for Accountants I introduces basic concepts and various tools and techniques used in the field
of data analytics for accounting. Learners will summarize data analysis definitions and models for the accounting field, explore data mining techniques
and the extract-transform-load (ETL) process and create a presentation from accounting data results. This course presents a survey of concepts that
provides learners with a basic understanding of how data analytics is used in accounting.
D553 - Data Analytics for Accountants II - Data Analytics for Accountants II equips students with the skills needed to analyze and present data to make
reliable forecasts and propose strategies. Accountants are no longer limited to being the chroniclers of an organization’s profits and expenses; they
now leverage the power of data to predict the future and advise leaders on appropriate actions. This course will emphasize auditing, managerial
accounting, tax accounting and financial reporting as the learner completes a professional scenario that requires predictive analysis and presenting a
course of action. As part of the Master of Accounting program, this course will cover content that appears in the data analysis portions of the Certified
Public Accountant (CPA) and Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exams. Data Analytics for Accountants I is a prerequisite for this course.
D554 - Advanced Financial Accounting I - D554: Advanced Financial Accounting I prepares students to engage in an expanding business world by
teaching complex accounting and specialized skills required to accommodate the advanced accounting needs of many industries. Being able to apply
financial standards using professional judgment to a variety of business situations is crucial for success in the business world. This course builds
student’s accounting knowledge by focusing on advanced financial accounting topics such as consolidations, partnership accounting, allocations,
adjustments, and eliminations.
D555 - Advanced Financial Accounting II - Advanced Financial Accounting II builds upon the topics covered in D554: Advanced Financial Accounting I.
It provides students with a deeper understanding of advanced financial accounting topics such as foreign currency transactions, hedging, annual and
interim reporting, and partnership accounting. This course will equip students with the necessary skills to prepare essential accounting records for
partnerships, translate foreign currency financial statements, and explain reporting requirements for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC).
D556 - Corporate Financial Analysis - Corporate Financial Analysis teaches the analysis of topics in financial management, including financial
statement analysis and strategic corporate decision-making related to valuation, risk, capital structure, investment decisions, and performance. This
course helps learners develop an understanding of the process financial managers and financial analysts face when making strategic decisions
designed to improve an organization’s efficiency. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D557 - Corporate Taxation - Corporate Taxation describes federal income taxation of corporations and their shareholders with emphasis on the
formation of the corporation, capital structure, operational alternatives, distributions, partial and complete liquidations, personal holding companies,
and the accumulated earnings tax. This course offers real-life scenario case studies and exercises to better engage learners by applying course
concepts in practice. This course involves difficult tax rules and concepts; thus, it is imperative for the learner to study the textbook and complete the
assigned problems in the text.
D558 - Pass-Through Taxation - Pass-Through Entities Taxation prepares learners to address the needs of the various pass-through entity types
regarding tax preparation. Many businesses choose to utilize pass-through entities rather than C corporations. Partnerships, limited liability company
(LLCs), and S corporations appear in almost all business sectors and each type contains unique features which can provide advantages to specific
business situations. Accountants encounter all these entity types throughout their career and understanding the advantages, disadvantages, specific
rules, and procedures is a vital skillset for the modern tax professional.
D559 - Advanced Managerial Accounting - Advanced Managerial Accounting focuses on problem-solving for managerial accounting issues. This
course prepares learners for the role of accountants in the planning and control of organizations. Learners also develops knowledge about how to use
efficient and various analysis techniques for decision-making based on cost information and economic insight, such as how managerial accounting
information supports the operational and strategic needs of an organization and how managers use accounting information for decision-making,
planning, and controlling activities within an organization.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 284
D560 - Internal Auditing I - Internal Auditing I provides learners with the basic knowledge and skills necessary to succeed as an entry-level internal
audit professional. The course introduces the fundamentals of internal auditing. It covers the importance of value proposition as well as the Institute of
Internal Auditor’s (IIA) International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF), which provides authoritative guidance for the internal auditing
profession, including the code of ethics and standards. The course will teach students risk management approaches for an organization, and the
internal controls related to the internal auditing function. The course concludes with exploring the key elements of governance related to fraud risk
management and the controls necessary to detect and prevent fraud. Topics include the foundations of internal auditing, risk management,
governance and controls, and fraud. This course aligns with Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) standards. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D561 - Information Systems for Accounting and Control - Information Systems I is intended to provide learners with an overview of information systems
and information system technology used in the world of accounting. The topics will include networks, hardware, data needs, cybersecurity, and
government compliance with privacy and personal information. The course covers a range of topics that accountants may experience and be
responsible for in their professional life. There are four competencies, and each competency will introduce learners to topics designed to prepare them
for the high-stakes assessment.
D562 - Internal Auditing II - Internal Auditing II is a continuation of D560: Internal Auditing I and covers the competencies expected of an internal audit
professional in the business world. This course is well aligned with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ (IIA) International Professional Practices
Framework (IPPF). The course focuses on the five domains of the IPPF: the internal audit activity, planning the engagement, performing the
engagement, communicating the engagement, and monitoring progress. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D564 - Theories of Personality - Theories of Personality describes the concepts and assumptions of significant theories of personality. The course
assesses the strengths and weaknesses of each major personality theory, describes and defines the research methodology frequently used by
psychologists in the study of personality, and identifies the contributions of theory and empirical research to our contemporary understanding of
personality. Cultural impacts on personality are also discussed. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D565 - Cultural Awareness and Ethics - Cultural Awareness and Ethics provides students with the understanding of what it means to have personal,
explicit and implicit cultural biases and how these can affect interpersonal interactions. The course will explore strategies for responding to personal
biases and for promoting cultural awareness and ethical actions. Through critical readings, videos, and interactive activities, the student will gain
knowledge in these essential subjects. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D566 - Psychology of Learning - Psychology of Learning focuses on applying research on learning, emotion, and motivation to positively impact
influence human behavior. The course presents a study of key research and theories in the areas related to learning, with a focus on applications to
promote acquisition, retention, and transfer of knowledge. Learners will explore evidence-based strategies to promote learning and analyze how
individual and group characteristics can impact affect learning. This course will improve learners’ understanding of the emotional, social, and
environmental factors which that shape human learning and humans' capacity for development. "Introduction to Psychology" is the prerequisite for this
course.
D567 - Social Psychology - Social Psychology presents major theories in the field related to how the thoughts, emotions, and behaviors of an individual
both influence and are influenced by groups, communities, and society. Topics include the social factors that influence the choices people make, the
role cultural expectations play in directing behavior, and how to analyze the roots of your own assumptions. Students will perform self-reflections and
analyze case studies of social behaviors. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D568 - Health Equity and Social Determinants of Health - Health Equity and Social Determinants of Health examines the social determinants of health
(SDOH) as underlying factors that contribute to health inequity in populations and communities and their effect on health outcomes. This course will
help students understand the evidence-based strategies and approaches that promote health equity.
D581 Introduction to Research Methods is a prerequisite to this course.
D569 - Adult Psychology - Adult Psychology provides an in-depth study of adult development. The learner will explore and apply major theories of
adult development. The learner will analyze how individual characteristics and experiences, sociocultural factors, and structural contexts contribute to
adult development. Focus on current evidence-based science is included, along with emphasis on observation, recognition, and application to
individuals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D570 - Cognitive Psychology - Cognitive Psychology examines human mental processes, including how humans sense, interpret, think about, and
respond to information, and how they integrate new information with prior experience. This course examines mental operations, attention, pattern
recognition and other perceptual processes, memory, problem-solving and decision-making, categorization and concept formation, language
acquisition and use, and contextual-interpretation. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D571 - Psychopathology - Psychopathology examines historical and contemporary views and issues of abnormal behavior. Students are provided with
an overview of the ways mental health practitioners explain, diagnose, and treat behavioral disorders. Sociocultural impacts on abnormal behavior,
including the manifestation, categorization, and treatment of mental illness, are explored. Biases and popular depictions of mental health and mental
illness are analyzed. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D572 - Career and Lifelong Learning - Career and Lifelong Learning supports students in taking their first steps in a lifelong journey of development as
a professional. Students will explore career pathways, plan how best to achieve their desired professional future, and take tangible steps toward that
future by creating career growth materials that adhere to today’s best practices. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D573 - Understanding Substance Abuse & Addiction - Understanding Substance Abuse and Addiction provides an overview of substance abuse
causes, impact, prevention, and treatment. Students will understand the signs and symptoms of substance abuse and addiction and its impact on
individuals, groups, and the community. Students will analyze relevant factors that initiate and reinforce substance abuse and addiction and describe
evidence-based strategies for prevention, intervention, and treatment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D574 - Neuropsychology - Neuropsychology covers how brain processes relate to human cognition and behavior. Students will understand typical
cognitive function in a person’s everyday life, major cognitive processes and neurophysiology involved in human sensation and perception, and
insights from social neurobiology on the interaction between brain processes and social behaviors. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D575 - Health Psychology - Health Psychology provides a basic overview of the biopsychosocial model of health and other holistic models of wellness.
The course draws from diverse cultural perspectives as well as the theory and practice of human health behavior change to explore the relationship
between psychosocial experiences and health. Topics include the impact of social and cultural factors on health, the relationship between stress and
physical health and disease, the psychological experience of illness, and how lifestyle patterns and behavior influence chronic disease. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 285
D576 - Industrial and Organizational Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology introduces students to the ways that businesses and other
organizations use psychological theories and models to recruit and train new talent, improve overall productivity, and enhance the motivation,
resilience, and team dynamics of employees. Students will consider both how to apply these strategies to themselves and how to use them to lead
others. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D577 - Team Dynamics - Team Dynamics explores interpersonal communication strategies, collaborative team interactions methods, and problem-
solving techniques to promote effective communication and improve quality outcomes in a professional environment. In this course, students will apply
psychologically-sound approaches for resolving conflicts, allowing them to navigate challenging workplace disagreements and personalities. Students
in this course will apply their skills to various situations. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D578 - Capstone in Psychology - The Capstone in Psychology is a culminating experience for the B.S. in Psychology program. In this project-based
course, students will apply their skills and psychological expertise obtained through the program to an issue of personal interest. Students will think
deeply and use their creative problem-solving skills and understanding of diverse perspectives. Upon completion of the capstone, students will have
proposed an evidence-based strategy to address a real-world psychosocial issue. The tasks for this course could be used as artifacts for a
professional portfolio. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D579 - Mental Health Awareness and Education - Mental Health Awareness and Education is designed to help students recognize mental disorders,
improve access to mental health services, support recovery, and lower the rate of death, disease, and disability among those with mental illnesses.
Topics include mental health education programs, mental health stigmas, cultural diversity in mental health, and barriers to mental health care and
strategies to overcome those barriers. Students will analyze these topics from the vantage point of a community mental health perspective. There are
no prerequisites for this course.
D580 - Healthcare Administration Capstone - This course is the culminating experience and assessment of healthcare business administration. This
course requires the student to integrate and synthesize managerial skills with healthcare knowledge, resulting in a high quality final project that
demonstrates professional managerial proficiency.
D581 - Introduction to Research Methods - Introduction to Research Methods familiarizes students with the foundations of research, guiding students
through selecting topics, forming research questions, engaging with relevant and reliable literature, and designing a research project. This course
provides an overview of how researchers form questions and hypotheses, which different types of methodologies can be used to address these
questions, and how existing literature and data are used to support or reject hypotheses. The methods presented in this course can be applied to many
fields and disciplines, and they provide a baseline for students to use in their chosen area of study and future work.
D582 - Introduction to Statistics for Research - Introduction to Statistics for Research covers descriptive and inferential statistics used to address
research questions. Levels of measurement, central tendency and variability, probability, distributions, correlation, hypothesis testing, t-tests, analysis
of variance, linear regression, and chi-square tests are examined, with a focus on their implications for research. Reading and interpreting graphically
presented statistical data is included. Before taking this course, students should complete C955 Applied Probability and Statistics or an equivalent
course.
D583 - Foundations in Public Health - Foundations in Public Health introduces learners to the nation’s public health systems including an overview of
the core functions of Public Health and the 10 essential public health services. Learners examine a variety of strategies to promote health, prevent
disease, and prolong life among populations and communities, including behavioral, population, and policy change, mass media approaches, and
community-based interventions. This course also provides learners with a foundational and historical orientation to the field of public health by
examining the philosophy, history, purpose, organization, terminology, and function.
D584 - Program Planning and Implementation - Program Planning and Implementation provides learners with the skills to plan and implement
evidenced-based public health programs to address the most important health issues affecting communities. Learners analyze community needs
assessments, develop program goals and SMART objectives, apply public health theories and models, and plan the implementation of a health
education strategy.
D585 - Program Evaluation - Program Evaluation familiarizes learners with approaches to evaluating an evidence-informed health program or
intervention implemented in a public health setting. Topics include logic models and evaluation frameworks; process and outcome metrics for
evaluating programs; qualitative and quantitative approaches to collecting data; and dissemination strategies for the results of program evaluation.
D586 - Public Health Policy - Public Health Policy introduces students to laws, regulations, actions, and decisions implemented within society to
promote wellness and ensure specific health goals are met. Public health policies range from formal legislation to community outreach efforts. In this
course, learners will examine the role of public health, the impact it has on our society, and strategies to promote health and health policy on a
community and global level.
D587 - Gender and Health - Gender and Health examines healthcare concerns, from both a historical perspective and the perspective current
healthcare trends and practices. This course covers the following topics: the history of gender and health; current healthcare trends the definitions of
sex and gender; and other, healthcare-related issues, including: equity versus equality, healthcare policies and bias, and health education. The goal of
this course is to increase student knowledge and awareness of how healthcare is influenced by sex, gender, and social determinants of health.
D588 - Human Sexuality - Human Sexuality provides learners with foundational knowledge surrounding public health issues, behaviors, risks,
prevention, and treatment for sexual health. Learners explore the relationship between one’s environment, biological makeup, and personal choices,
and analyze how each could impact sexual health, psychological factors, and physical well-being for an individual. Learners examine inequities related
to status, age, ethnicity, citizenship, disability, and sexual orientation, addressing challenges and gaps in public sexual healthcare services. Learners
then take critical foundational knowledge and produce educational materials for target populations. Learners identify community resources, data
sources, and sexual health education materials. This gives learners an opportunity to explore health literacy, methods of meeting the needs of specific
communities, and gaps in sexual public health resources. Learners leave this course with an understanding of key human sexuality issues, their
causes, and potential resolutions within public health settings.
D589 - Chronic and Infectious Diseases - Chronic & Infectious Diseases is designed to provide students with a deep understanding of the major
diseases that significantly impact public health. Chronic and infectious diseases remain a critical concern globally, and this course aims to empower
students with the knowledge and skills needed to address these challenges effectively. Students explore epidemiology, pathophysiology, prevention,
and management of various chronic and infectious diseases.
D590 - Public Health Administration - Public Health Administration is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the
principles, practices, and challenges of managing healthcare organizations in today's complex healthcare environment. It explores the critical aspects
of Public Health Administration, including leadership, healthcare policy, financial management, quality improvement, and ethical considerations.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 286
D591 - Grant Writing - Grant Writing introduces learners to essential tasks and approaches to acquiring funding for public health projects and programs
through grants. It addresses how to find and apply to both government and non-government grant opportunities. Learners practice researching for
grants, determining which grants align with the mission and purpose of a public health program, evaluating draft grant proposals, and identifying and
revising key components of a drafted proposal.
D592 - Environmental Health - This course provides learners with the foundational knowledge and relationship people have with their environment, the
risk management choices made, and the resulting associations that affect health and physical well-being for the individual, communities, and
susceptible populations.
D593 - Global Health - Global Health prepares learners to identify and analyze Global Health as a field. Learners consider how globalization has
affected the health of various groups of people throughout the world. Likewise, the learner also looks at how economic and environmental factors have
different effects on different groups globally. Finally, the course presents the learner with knowledge of various global initiatives and international
organizations that strive to promote health and well-being and reduce health disparities. The learner demonstrates their knowledge and skills by
drafting an advocacy statement promoting the successful efforts of a global health organization.
D594 - Public Health Leadership and Administration - Public Health Leadership & Administration Learners apply leadership principles for public health
leadership positions. This includes engaging, organizing, and leading diverse groups, as well as addressing ethical issues in the field of public health.
Learners also apply negotiation and mediation skills to address challenges they may face in the organization or community.
D595 - Public Health Capstone - Public Health Capstone provides learners with real-world applications to prepare them for the public health industry.
In this course, learners apply the knowledge gained through the program to real-world situations and educates the public in response to those
situations.
D596 - The Data Analytics Journey - The Data Analytics Journey uses the analytics life cycle to conceptualize the processes, tools, and techniques for
implementing data analysis, data engineering, and decision process engineering. Students gain fluency in gathering requirements, asking business
questions, establishing evaluation metrics, identifying communication models, and aligning the analytics project outcomes to business goals. This
course presents an overview of the various tracks offered in the program and the career options in these specializations. There is no prerequisite for
this course.
D597 - Data Management - Data Management builds proficiency in using both relational and non-relational databases. Topics include selection of a
data storage architecture, data types, data structures, normalization and denormalization, and querying databases. Structured Query Language (SQL)
topics such as Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation Language (DML) are covered, including joins, aggregations, and transactions.
Non-relational approaches to organizing and querying data are contrasted with relational approaches to build competency in adapting data storage
architectures to business needs.
D598 - Analytics Programming - Analytics Programming builds algorithmic thinking using both the Python and R programming languages. This course
builds from the foundations of programming. Learners use libraries and packages to perform common analytics tasks, including acquiring, organizing,
and manipulating data sets. The course also presents methods for applying statistical functions and graphical user interfaces to perform basic analysis
and to present findings. There is no pre-requisite for this course.
D599 - Data Preparation and Exploration - Data Preparation and Exploration applies analytical programming skills to the early steps of the data
analytics life cycle. This course covers cleaning data to ensure the structure, accuracy, and quality of the data; interpretation of descriptive and
inferential statistics as well as visualizations of data; and wrangling data to prepare it for further analysis. The course introduces hypothesis testing,
focusing on application for parametric tests, and addresses communication skills and tools to explain an analyst’s findings to others within an
organization. The following courses are prerequisites: The Data Analytics Journey, Data Management, and Analytics Programming.
D600 - Statistical Data Mining - Statistical Data Mining focuses on concepts in data preparation and supervised and unsupervised machine learning
techniques. The course helps students gain basic knowledge in statistics, data preparation, regression, and dimensional reduction. Learners
implement supervised models—specifically classification and prediction data mining models—to identify relationships among variables that are not
apparent with more surface-level techniques. The course also explains when, how, and why to use unsupervised models to best meet organizational
needs. The following course is a prerequisite: Data Preparation and Exploration.
D601 - Data Storytelling for Varied Audiences - Data Storytelling for Varied Audiences focuses on communicating observations and patterns to diverse
stakeholders, a key aspect of the data analytics life cycle. This course helps learners gain communication and storytelling skills in order to motivate
change and answer business problems. It also covers data visualizations, audio representations, interactive dashboards, interpersonal communication,
and presentation skills. There is no pre-requisite for this course.
D602 - Deployment - Deployment is the practice of operationalizing data analysis within a business environment. Given an analysis, learners
determine the business functional and non-functional requirements for wider use and implement pipelines and functions to deploy analyses at scale.
This course discusses topics such as security, scalability, usability, and availability. The following courses are prerequisites: Analytics Programming,
Data Management, Data Preparation, and Statistical Data Mining.
D603 - Machine Learning - Machine Learning comprises the broad discipline of developing algorithms and statistical models to predict, classify, or
cluster data and iteratively improve over time. Machine Learning focuses on building, training, running, and testing supervised and unsupervised
models and quantifying the accuracy and precision of those models to determine which may best be used in a particular business situation.
Supervised methods discussed include k-nearest neighbors, decision trees, and support vector machines. Unsupervised models discussed include k-
means clustering, hierarchical clustering, and t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE). Ensemble methods are also presented. The
following courses are prerequisites: Analytics Programming and Statistical Data Mining.
D604 - Advanced Analytics - Advanced Analytics extends analytics techniques from machine learning to artificial intelligence more broadly, including
topics in neural networks, deep learning, and natural language processing. The course covers approaches to developing these models including
PyTorch and TensorFlow. Students learn to apply a combination of techniques to solve complex business challenges including computer vision and
sentiment analysis.
D605 - Optimization - Optimization is a large class of business problems requiring the iterative algorithmic maximization or minimization or one or more
variables. Students in this course will select and use a variety of optimization approaches to address various business needs. The course covers
classes of optimization problems at a foundational level (continuous/discrete, linear/nonlinear, and bounded/unbounded) and the solving of linear
optimization problems in both Python and R through the use of gradient and non-gradient-based algorithms. Analytics Programming is a prerequisite.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 287
D606 - Data Science Capstone - Data Science Capstone integrates the key concepts from the MSDA core with the knowledge gained in the three
courses within the Data Science specialization. In this course, students will evaluate various needs and opportunities in an organization or
marketplace. In addition, students will identify business requirements and translate those business requirements into technical requirements. Finally,
students will create a comprehensive project plan to solve a problem in a way that satisfies customer or business needs. Projects within this
specialization may include the design and construction of machine learning approaches, optimization, and the use of advanced analytics techniques as
the project requires. There is no prerequisite for this course.
D607 - Cloud Databases - Cloud Databases covers the application of cloud architectures to large-scale data systems. The course discusses the
differences between cloud-native approaches to data architectures and smaller-scale systems. Students in this course apply cloud computing
concepts to address specific business scenarios. There is no prerequisite for this course.
D608 - Data Processing - Data Processing includes the practice of automating data flow into and out of components of an analytics system. Data
processing comprises a major part of the analytics life cycle in modern organizations. This course covers concepts in extract, transform, and load
(ETL) pipeline operations on data at scale and variations of ETL as a function of data repositories, including data warehouses and data lakes.
Streaming and batch data operations and their differences are discussed, and students implement pipeline solutions in cloud-native environments.
There is no prerequisite for this course.
D609 - Data Analytics at Scale - Data Analytics at Scale builds on previous data engineering courses and discusses approaches for analyzing large
data sets. The course discusses map/reduce approaches, Apache Spark, and cloud–native solutions for developing, automating, and scaling data
analytics. Also discussed are methods for integrating data processing pipelines and data stores to create comprehensive data analytics architectures.
D610 - Data Engineering Capstone - The Data Engineering Capstone has learners utilize the skills learned throughout the MDSA core courses and the
data engineering courses to examine a problem where data engineering is a solution and to build a cloud-native infrastructure that allows for data
processing. Learners are asked to implement their solutions and tell a story using the data. Course material introduces the project and reminds
learners of relevant learning resources from previous courses that will prove helpful in completing the performance assessment.
D612 - Business Process Engineering - Processes form the core of any organization and involve both manual and automated steps. Business Process
Engineering introduces how to identify processes, visualize them, and how to design and implement operational methods that promote organizations’
overall efficiency. The course covers common process engineering frameworks, the stages of process engineering present in common frameworks,
and introduces tools used to conduct business process reengineering.
D613 - Decision Intelligence - Decision Intelligence is a domain that optimizes decision-making by balancing technology, processes, and people. In
this course students learn the core principles of Decision Intelligence, exploring the augmentation of decision processes with machine learning,
comprehensive decision modeling, and the pivotal role of a “human-in-the-loop” design. Students will navigate decision theories and multi-criteria
decision analysis, gaining insight into how biases and heuristics influence decision outcomes. The course emphasizes framing decisions using causal
decision diagrams (CDD), implementing decision intelligence, evaluating the outcome using key performance indicators and determining the return on
investment of the change, and using change management techniques to help the organization adapt to new decision making strategies.
D614 - Decision Process Engineering Capstone - The Decision Process Engineering capstone integrates the learning in the MSDA core and the three
courses within the specialization. The learner evaluates various needs and opportunities in an organization or marketplace; identifies the business
requirements; translates the business requirements into technical requirements; and creates a comprehensive project plan to solve the problem in a
way that satisfies the customer or business needs. Projects within this specialization include a project management plan, decision intelligence plan, or
process engineering plan to deliver on the business need or opportunity.
D616 - Consumer Behavior - Consumer Behavior examines the buying behavior of consumers in the marketplace. Students will gain knowledge of
consumer behavior theories and an understanding of how consumer behavior concepts apply to the consumer decision-making process. Students will
learn how consumer insights are gained through the exploration of external social and cultural influences such as reference groups, family, and culture,
as well as consumer influences such as needs, motivation, personality, and learning. The course also provides an interdisciplinary perspective,
including psychology, sociology, anthropology, and economics, to better evaluate and predict consumer behavior. There are no prerequisites to this
course.
D617 - Public Health Core Functions and Essential Services - Public Health Core Functions and Essential Services builds foundational knowledge by
exploring the ethical dimensions, intervention techniques, and educational strategies crucial for effective public health practice. Participants delve into
the historical underpinnings, philosophy, and core values of public health, gaining insights into ethical principles guiding decision-making. The course
equips students with the skills to design and implement impactful public health programs, emphasizing strategies tailored for health disparities and
equity. The course navigates current issues and trends, providing a forward-looking perspective. Integrating discussions on core functions and the 10
Essential Services, the course fosters a holistic understanding of prevention science across primary, secondary, and tertiary levels in population
health, including health promotion and screening. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D618 - Environmental Health - Environmental Health provides learners with foundational knowledge, covering the relationship people have with their
environment, the risk management choices that are made, and the resulting associations that affect the health and physical well-being of individuals,
communities, and susceptible populations. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D619 - Global Health - Global Health prepares learners to identify and analyze Global Health as a field. Learners consider how globalization has
affected the health of various groups of people throughout the world. Likewise, the learner also looks at how economic and environmental factors have
different effects on different groups globally. Finally, the course presents the learner with knowledge of various global initiatives and international
organizations that strive to promote health and well-being and reduce health disparities. The learner demonstrates their knowledge and skills by
drafting an advocacy statement promoting the successful efforts of a global health organization.
D620 - Public Health Leadership and Administration - Public Health Leadership and Administration enables students to apply leadership principles for
public health leadership positions. This includes engaging, organizing, and leading diverse groups, as well as addressing ethical issues in the field of
public health. Students also apply negotiation and mediation skills to address challenges they may face in the organization or community. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D621 - Social and Behavioral Determinants of Health - Social and Behavioral Determinants of Health provides an overview of social and behavioral
determinants and their association with health behaviors, health outcomes, and health disparities. Learners examine the strategies to mitigate social
determinant barriers and apply public health theories and models to elicit behavior change and to bridge the health disparity gap. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D622 - Public Health Assessment, Program Planning, Intervention, and Evaluation - Public Health Assessment, Program Planning, Implementation
and Evaluation explores the key components, concepts, and approaches for the public health assessment and planning process. In this course,
students will apply evidence-based practices to conduct a community needs assessment, design a health promotion program, and develop
implementation and evaluation plans. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 288
D623 - Public Health Finance and Funding - Public Health Finance and Funding offers students a field-specific approach to acquiring the budgetary
skills needed to secure funding for public health programs and manage it in prudent ways. Students learn to navigate various funding sources, such as
government grants and cooperative agreements, and philanthropic organizations. Students learn to create budgets using government documentation
both for managing funds and for persuading funding organizations of the value of projects. Finally, students conduct a variance analysis—the process
by which budgets are evaluated for feasibility after programs have launched. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D624 - Biostatistics and Analysis - Biostatistics and Analysis introduces learners to the role that biostatistics has in public health, predicting public
health outcomes and influencing decisions made with policies. Learners will examine the sources and methods of collecting public health information,
analyze and interpret quantitative data in research studies, and make inferences on the effectiveness of health program interventions and policies.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
D625 - Principles of Epidemiology - Principles of Epidemiology offers an in-depth exploration of foundational principles and methodologies crucial for
discerning and interpreting health and disease patterns in populations. Learners engage with core epidemiological concepts, encompassing measures
of disease frequency, study designs, and principles of causation. Emphasizing practical applications, the course equips learners with analytical skills
and theoretical foundations essential for conducting epidemiological research and contributing to evidence-based public health practices. Delving into
a diverse range of topics, participants cultivate a robust understanding of epidemiological principles and their real-world applications, facilitating a
seamless integration of knowledge into public health practices. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D626 - Public Health Policy and Advocacy - Public Health Policy and Advocacy prepares learners to approach public health in the political landscape.
Policy can affect the health of groups ranging in size from individual organizations to entire nations and even the globe, making this an especially
powerful and complex tool for the public health specialist. Learners in this course compare international healthcare systems, describe the policy-
making process, evaluate a policy for its impact, and advocate in favor of a public health policy. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D627 - Public Health Education and Promotion - Health Education & Promotion provides learners with a thorough understanding of this multifaceted
field, delving into its core concepts, philosophical underpinnings, and fundamental principles. The curriculum explores various teaching methods
tailored to the dynamic landscape of health education, equipping learners with versatile tools to effectively communicate health-related information.
Learners develop an appreciation for the importance of promoting well-being and preventative measures, recognizing the interconnectedness of
physical, mental, and social aspects of health. Through a combination of theoretical exploration and practical applications, this course aims to cultivate
not only a strong foundation in health education, but also essential communication skills vital for disseminating health information in diverse contexts.
Learners emerge from the course with a comprehensive skill set, ready to engage in the vital work of educating and empowering individuals and
communities to make informed decisions for a healthier future. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D628 - Public Health Graduate Capstone - Public Health Graduate Capstone enables students to investigate a public health issue in their local or
home community and recommend new approaches to address that issue. Students practice the skills they have honed over the Master of Public
Health program to design one that improves public health through education. Students control the process from research and discovery to program
design, ultimately justifying their approach to potential stakeholders.
D629 - The Reflective Practitioner - The Reflective Practitioner defines what reflective teaching is and how accomplished teachers reflect meaningfully
on their pedagogical choices to improve their practice. During this course, candidates will examine their teaching to determine how they can more
effectively plan, facilitate, and evaluate learning. Candidates will also develop a professional growth plan and incorporate evidence-based practices
that support the achievement of their professional goals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D630 - Designing Curriculum and Instruction I - Designing Curriculum and Instruction I examines the influence that specific theories, design principles,
and evaluation models have on the quality and effectiveness of a curriculum. During the course, candidates will conduct a curriculum analysis in order
to determine the content that students need. The course requires candidates to learn how to define the scope and sequence of a curriculum to ensure
vertical and horizontal alignment. This course will also teach how to map curriculum to address any gaps or unnecessary duplication within and across
grade levels. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D631 - Designing Curriculum and Instruction II - Designing Curriculum and Instruction II examines commonly used curriculum and instructional models
and demonstrates how they can be used during the design process to achieve curricular and instructional goals. This course demonstrates how to
design curriculum and instruction that leverages digital tools to facilitate deep, authentic learning and provides strategies for ensuring successful
curriculum implementation. Designing Curriculum and Instruction I is a prerequisite for this course.
D632 - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning focuses on empowering
educational leaders with the knowledge and skills necessary to foster cultural competency, deepen their understanding of diverse learner populations,
and apply culturally responsive pedagogy. This course places a strong emphasis on promoting social justice, equity, and inclusivity within educational
contexts. Students in this course will engage in immersive learning experiences aimed at equipping them with the capacity to lead social-emotional
learning initiatives that cater to the social and emotional needs of all learners. The course also empowers students with advocacy strategies to
influence positive change in local and global educational environments, ensuring that educational leaders are well prepared to navigate the challenges
and opportunities of today's diverse educational landscape. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of D019: Data Literacy
and Evidence-Based Practices.
D633 - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction prepares candidates to evaluate and
implement curricular programs and instructional methods observed at the school level. Candidates focus on the knowledge and skills needed to
develop, align, and implement cohesive systems of curriculum, instruction, and assessment. Importance is placed on responding to student needs,
embodying high expectations for student learning, aligning with academic and non-academic standards within and across grade levels, and promoting
students' academic and non-academic success and social and emotional well-being. This course also explores the use of data from formative and
summative assessments to make recommendations to improve instruction and promote student learning and well-being. Candidates are prepared to
build a professional culture of trust and collaboration to ensure they are able to work with school personnel in creating curricular programs and
instructional methods that are engaging, challenging, and relevant to student needs, experiences, and interests. This course is designed to be taken
after successful completion of D632: Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning.
D634 - Health Sciences Capstone - The Health Sciences Capstone is a culminating experience for the BS in Health Sciences program. In this project-
based course, students will apply their skills obtained through the program to an issue of personal interest in the health sciences. This course requires
students to think deeply and use their creative problem-solving skills and understanding of diverse perspectives to identify a research topic and
conduct research on it. Upon completion of the capstone, students will have proposed an evidence-based strategy to address a real-world issue
related to the health sciences. Students must complete all other courses in this program before attempting the capstone. This course is eligible for an
In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 289
D635 - Practices for Inclusive Classrooms - Practices for Inclusive Classrooms empowers educators to create more inclusive and effective learning
environments. This course focuses on the principles and strategies of personalized learning, emphasizing the need to value and support the unique
needs, interests, and abilities of each learner. The course provides a foundation for learner characteristics of learners with exceptionalities and other
unique learning needs. This course helps candidates develop skills for partnering with parents and families, to advocate for all learners with
exceptionalities, including those impacted by provisions of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act. Multitiered systems of support are addressed to prepare candidates for their future classrooms as they seek to select appropriate instructional
practices and interventions to best serve their learners. These factors are also addressed in relation to online and hybrid learning environments.
D636 - Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning Environments - Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning Environments teaches educators
how to foster supportive and productive classroom climates. This course delves into the key elements that contribute to creating and maintaining a
positive learning atmosphere, such as effective communication, classroom norms and routines, and positive behavior supports. Emphasizing the
importance of a safe and inclusive environment, the course explores methods to promote student engagement, collaboration, and mutual respect
among learners. It also addresses the role of mental well-being in learning, exploring trauma-informed and restorative practices. These factors are also
addressed in relation to online and hybrid learning environments. Through a blend of theoretical frameworks and practical applications including case
studies, Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning Environments teaches learners how to develop and sustain environments that not only enhance
academic performance but also support the holistic development of students. Candidates will apply theoretical concepts to analyze a classroom
environment.
D637 - Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning - Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning is a dynamic
course designed for educators seeking to deepen their understanding of instructional planning and the execution of educational strategies that foster
meaningful learning experiences. This course provides candidates with the knowledge and skills necessary to create engaging and standards-aligned
lessons that meet the needs of all learners. This course also covers a range of high-leverage instructional practices to increase student learning,
engagement, and achievement. Participants will learn to utilize assessments to inform instruction, adapt teaching to accommodate all learners, and
incorporate technology to enhance learning. Candidates will reflect on research-based instructional practices.
D638 - Monitoring Student Learning Through Assessment - Monitoring Student Learning Through Assessment enhances students’ skills in evaluating
learner progress and educational outcomes. This course provides an in-depth exploration of various assessment techniques, including formative and
summative assessments, standardized tests, benchmark assessments, progress monitoring, and alternative assessment strategies. This course
teaches students to design effective assessment tools, interpret data to inform instruction, and provide meaningful feedback to learners. This course
also provides a foundation of data analysis that supports educators’ need to understand data and present data to stakeholders. It also explores online
and digital assessment tools. This course requires students to design an assessment based on evidence-based practices.
D639 - Technology for Instruction and Online Pedagogy - Technology for Instruction and Online Pedagogy is an innovative course designed to equip
educators with the skills to effectively integrate technology in their teaching practices. The course also covers best practices for online pedagogy,
assessment and feedback, collaborative learning, and the use of multimedia and interactive elements to enhance learning experiences. With a focus
on practical application, educators will leave the course ready to create and facilitate compelling, high-quality online learning experiences that meet the
needs of today’s learners. This course also provides a foundation for supporting digital literacy in K-12 education. In addition, this course prepares
candidates to use technology to improve professional productivity and effectiveness in areas like data analysis and data representations. Candidates
will apply evidence-based practices to adapt instruction to meet student needs.
D640 - Giving, Receiving and Incorporating Feedback - Giving, Receiving, and Incorporating Feedback introduces students to the skills and strategies
used to successfully receive feedback, iterate based on feedback, and provide constructive feedback to others. This course explores personal and
professional settings in different contexts, including culturally complex or diverse settings. Students will engage with their peers as they are introduced
to self-assessment and reflection as forms of feedback that can help them explore personal interests and preferences as well as professional
relationships and networks.
D641 - Adapting to Ambiguity - Adapting to Ambiguity prepares students to navigate ambiguous situations in uncertain and rapidly changing
environments. Students will collaborate with peers as they develop a proactive mindset toward ambiguity and learn how to approach ambiguous
situations through adaptability, clarity, and creative problem-solving. This course enables students to apply tools for reframing ambiguous situations,
creating a vision for success, planning incremental steps, and adapting to both personal and professional situations as growth opportunities. In
addition, students will explore the importance of a professional portfolio and how to curate artifacts for a given purpose and career goal.
D642 - Empathy and Inclusive Collaboration - Empathy and Inclusive Collaboration guides students toward understanding the value and benefits of
culturally diverse groups, identifying their own implicit and explicit biases, and applying strategies to overcome these biases. Students will learn to
leverage diverse perspectives, ensure inclusivity, apply empathetic listening strategies, and build collaborative work groups. Students will learn that
having multiple perspectives is imperative to being a creative and innovative problem-solver and developing inclusive solutions. Students will develop
an awareness of power disparity, an ability to decentralize their own perspectives, and the knowledge of how to seek deeper context on issues rather
than act through implicit bias.
D643 - Navigating Complex Problems - Navigating Complex Problems introduces students to problem-solving techniques needed to address
organizational challenges and implement solutions for desired results. Students will identify the data required to define complex problems, differentiate
between short- and long-term problems, and develop strategies for resolution. Students will focus on root cause analysis, ethics and biases,
communications, and the steps to strategically solve problems, while learning how to create an implementation plan for stakeholders.
D644 - Foundations of Strategic Communications - Foundations of Strategic Communications provides a foundation for developing clear, concise, and
compelling messaging for specific situations and audiences across various business purposes. Students will be introduced to strategic communication
theories and the legal and ethical issues to consider when planning, implementing, and evaluating communications based on intended goals,
outcomes, and audiences. In this course, students will collaborate with peers as they gain the skills necessary to be effective and ethical
communicators. Students will develop confidence in presenting ideas, persuading others, and navigating complex strategic communications situations.
D645 - Crafting a Communications Strategy Through Research and Data Insights - Crafting a Communications Strategy Through Research and Data
Insights prepares learners to develop a strategic communications plan based on data and research. Learners will conduct audience analysis, create a
persona, and create internal and external communication strategies to inform their messaging, targeting, and content creation. In this course learners
will collaborate with peers to gather insights on audience preferences and behaviors and use this information to shape audience specific
communication strategies. As learners develop the ability to harness data and research to make informed decisions, connect with their audience and
communicate ethically and effectively, they will address various stakeholder needs to achieve a desired outcome.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 290
D646 - Delivering a Communications Strategy - Delivering a Communications Strategy prepares students to create effective internal and external
communications to achieve business objectives. Students will collaborate with peers to develop content for multimedia, press releases, and social
media, to successfully implement and deliver a strategic communications plan. Students will create specific messaging for internal communications to
build strong corporate cultures, improve workplace communication, and support business needs. Students will also develop external communications
for particular goals, purposes, and audiences to ensure content relevancy. This course teaches storytelling techniques and content repurposing to
deliver multichannel communications.
D647 - Evaluating a Communications Strategy - Evaluating a Communications Strategy introduces students to key performance indicators (KPIs) used
to measure the effectiveness of strategic communications plans. Students will develop metrics that align with specific organizational performance goals
and will understand how to use these metrics to assess and improve communication strategies. As students gain hands-on experience in measuring
and optimizing communications strategies to achieve business objectives, they will select appropriate KPIs for a given strategic communications plan,
analyze results, use data visualization to present outcomes, and recommend continuous improvements. In this course, students will collaborate with
peers as they gain the skills necessary to determine KPIs and iterate on communications strategies.
D648 - Leveraging AI and Technology in Strategic Communications - Leveraging AI and Technology in Strategic Communications provides students
with the current landscape of artificial intelligence (AI), its evolution, and its impact on communications. Students will explore the ethical implications of
using AI and other emerging technologies when creating communications content. Students will gain the skills necessary to use AI and other new
technologies in ethical and innovative ways, lead teams in devising ethical guidelines for using AI in creating communications and use communication
technology to enhance organizational productivity.
D649 - Crisis Communication - Crisis Communication prepares students to plan for and manage crisis responses. Students will analyze the stages of a
crisis, create plans and messages for managing a crisis, and coach spokespeople to deliver the appropriate message using multiple channels. While
engaging in a crisis communication simulation, students will explore how to establish and maintain message positioning, foster working relationships
with news and media agencies, and build trust within stakeholder communities. Students will create internal and external crisis response
communication plans to ensure coordinated, unified, and effective messaging.
D650 - Communications Applied Learning Capstone - Communications Applied Learning Capstone provides students with real-world applications to
prepare them for the communications industry. In this course, students will integrate and apply skills gained throughout the program by working with an
organization on a strategic communications project. The capstone allows students to apply their technical knowledge while reinforcing the power skills
of giving, receiving, and incorporating feedback, demonstrating empathy and inclusive collaboration, planning within ambiguous situations, and
navigating a complex problem. Further, students will refine their portfolios and personal brands to enhance their marketability and strategically plan for
their future communications careers.
D651 - Foundations of Design - Foundations of Design introduces students to foundational theories and concepts of design. Students will develop a
comprehensive knowledge of design thinking and its implications as a problem-solving approach to identifying user needs and solving business
problems. Various types of design fields are introduced including product design, experience design, service design, visual and graphic design, and
user experience design. Equitable design considerations are explored as students gain knowledge of the design process.
D652 - Design Applications - Design Applications guides students in applying the knowledge and skills gained in Foundations of Design. Students will
gain valuable experience in using storyboards to formulate the visual representation of design concepts. The design phase will then evolve into
designing a wireframe and low-fidelity prototype using industry-standard visual design tools. Prototype designs will focus on visual composition,
interactivity, and usability. Key user-centered design principles will be applied in balance, thematic consistency, visual aesthetics, and ethical
considerations. This course provides a hands-on application to the visual and functional design process, producing industry artifacts for students'
professional portfolios.
D653 - Empathizing, Defining, and Ideating - Empathizing, Defining, and Ideating prepares students to incorporate empathy-driven, user-centered
design thinking in design solutions. This course focuses on the importance of empathy, research, and interdisciplinary collaboration in equitable design
solutions. Students gain experience ideating with diverse workgroups to define the needs of users and stakeholders through research, determine
audience segments and personas, and apply ideation strategies to create impactful, and meaningful user experience design concepts.
D654 - Prototyping and Iterating I - Prototyping and Iterating I focuses on usability testing to create user-centered digital products. Tools and
techniques are explored, including planning and conducting a usability study and iterating on a mockup that incorporates visual design principles.
Students will collaborate to gather feedback to apply to a mockup for continuous improvement. This course provides hands-on application for
producing industry artifacts for the student’s professional portfolio.
D655 - Prototyping and Iterating II - Prototyping and Iterating II applies the knowledge and skills gained in Prototyping and Iterating I. Students will
collaborate in design critique sessions to gather and incorporate feedback to design a high-fidelity prototype. Visual design principles and accessibility
considerations will be applied to ensure functionality and user interaction. This course includes building a prototype for a responsive website as part of
the Google UX Design Professional Certificate that can be included in the student’s professional portfolio.
D656 - Leveraging AI and Technology in Design - Leveraging AI and Technology in Design provides students with the current landscape of artificial
intelligence (AI), how it has evolved, and its impact on design. Students will gain the skills necessary to use AI and other new technologies in ethical
and innovative ways, lead teams in devising ethical guidelines for using AI in designing digital products and enhance organizational productivity using
design technology.
D657 - Design Applied Learning Capstone - Design Applied Learning Capstone provides students with real-world applications to prepare them for the
product and experience design industry. In this course, students will integrate and apply skills gained throughout the program by working with an
organization on a design project. The capstone lets students apply their visual and technical design knowledge while also reinforcing the power skills
of giving, receiving, and incorporating feedback, empathy and inclusive collaboration, planning within ambiguous situations, and navigating a complex
problem. Further, students will refine their portfolios and personal brand to enhance their marketability and strategically plan for their future career.
D658 - Planning Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning - Planning Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning is a dynamic course
designed for educators seeking to deepen their understanding of instructional planning and the execution of educational strategies that foster
meaningful learning experiences. This course provides candidates with the knowledge and skills necessary to create engaging and standards-aligned
lessons that meet the needs of all students. This course also covers a range of high-leverage instructional practices to increase student learning,
engagement, and achievement. Participants will learn to utilize assessments to inform instruction, adapt teaching to accommodate all students, and
incorporate technology to enhance learning.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 291
D659 - Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning - Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning is a targeted course crafted for candidates who aim
to enhance their skills in evaluating student progress and educational outcomes. This course provides an in-depth exploration of various assessment
techniques, including formative and summative assessments, standardized tests, benchmark assessments, progress monitoring, and alternative
assessment strategies. Participants will learn how to design effective assessment tools, interpret data to inform instruction, and provide meaningful
feedback to students. This course also provides a foundation of data analysis that supports educators’ need to understand data and present data to
stakeholders. Candidates will also explore online and digital assessment tools. Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning will prepare learners to
align assessments to standards to monitor student learning, assess data, and provide on time and quality feedback.
D660 - Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy - Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy is an innovative course designed to equip
students with the skills to effectively integrate technology in their teaching practices. The course also covers best practices for online pedagogy,
assessment and feedback, collaborative learning, and the use of multimedia and interactive elements to enhance learning experiences. With a focus
on practical application, students will leave the course ready to create and facilitate compelling, high-quality online learning experiences that meet the
needs of today's diverse learners. This course also provides a foundation for supporting digital literacy in K–12 education. In addition, this course
prepares students to use technology to improve professional productivity and effectiveness in areas like data analysis and data representations.
D661 - Creating Positive Learning Environments - Creating Positive Learning Environments delves into the key elements that contribute to creating
and maintaining a positive learning atmosphere for educators focused on fostering supportive and productive classroom climates. The course teaches
effective communication, classroom norms and routines, and positive behavior supports. Emphasizing the importance of a safe and inclusive
environment, the course also explores methods to promote student engagement, collaboration, and mutual respect among all learners. It also
addresses the role of mental well-being in learning, exploring trauma-informed and restorative practices, which are addressed in relation to online and
hybrid learning environments. Through a blend of theoretical frameworks and practical applications including case studies, Creating Positive Learning
Environments teaches learners how to develop and sustain environments that not only enhance academic performance but also support the holistic
development of students.
D662 - Personalized Learning for Inclusive Classrooms - Personalized Learning for Inclusive Classrooms empowers educators to create more
inclusive and effective learning environments. This course focuses on the principles and strategies of personalized learning, emphasizing the need to
value and support the unique needs, interests, and abilities of each learner. The course provides a foundation for learner characteristics of learners
with exceptionalities and other unique learning needs. This course helps candidates develop skills for partnering with parents and families to advocate
for all students with exceptionalities, including those impacted by provisions of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and Section 504 of
the Rehabilitation Act. Multitiered systems of support are addressed to prepare candidates for their future classrooms as they seek to select
appropriate instructional practices and interventions to best serve their learners. These factors are also addressed in relation to online and hybrid
learning environments.
D663 - The Professional Educator - The Professional Educator prepares WGU students to excel in the exciting and impactful profession of being an
educator. Additionally, the course addresses the importance of continuous professional development and ethical considerations in teaching through
the School of Education (SOE) Professional Dispositions and Ethics. Upon completion of the course, WGU students will be equipped with the tools and
insights needed to continue their professional journey of becoming effective, inspiring, and adaptive educators, capable of making a significant impact
in the lives of their students and the broader educational community. (This is not a transferable course.)
D664 - Learners and Learning Science - Learners and Learning Science provides WGU students with a deep understanding of the science behind
learning processes. This course covers a broad spectrum of topics pertaining to the science of learning, including cognitive development, learning
theories, neuroscience in education, and the impact of developmental milestones on learning. Students will explore how these concepts apply to
learning environments and educational levels, from early childhood through adolescence. The course emphasizes evidence-based practices and the
practical application of learning science principles, equipping students with strategies to enhance learning outcomes and student engagement. This
course aims to empower educators to create more effective, inclusive, and engaging learning experiences for all learners.
D665 - Learner Development and the Science of Learning - Learner Development and the Science of Learning provides WGU students with a deep
understanding of the science behind learning processes. This course covers a broad spectrum of topics pertaining to the science of learning, including
cognitive development, learning theories, neuroscience in education, and the impact of developmental milestones on learning. Students will explore
how these concepts apply to learning environments and educational levels, from early childhood through adolescence. The course emphasizes
evidence-based practices and the practical application of learning science principles, equipping students with strategies to enhance learning outcomes
and learner engagement. This course aims to empower educators to create more effective, inclusive, and engaging learning experiences for all
learners. Candidates will evaluate science learning theories in classrooms.
D667 - Precalculus - Precalculus builds on previous math courses to provide a deeper understanding of fundamental mathematical concepts and
problem-solving skills to prepare students for calculus and professional success. The course will lead students to engage with functions, trigonometry,
systems of equations, analytic geometry, and sequences and series. Through interactive learning experiences and real-world applications, precalculus
will help students develop a deeper understanding of mathematical principles and their practical significance across diverse fields. Successful
completion of a college level algebra course is a prerequisite for this course.
D668 - Elementary Literacy Curriculum - Elementary Literacy Curriculum is a comprehensive course that deepens an educator's knowledge of
language acquisition and progressively complex concepts and skills surrounding literacy. This course explores critical elements of the science of
reading and writing, including applying key theories and research used to support the development of literacy, evaluating diverse resources, and
utilizing purposeful oral, written, and digital communication in elementary curriculum. Candidates delve into the foundational aspects of literacy,
including phonological awareness, phonics, word analysis, fluency, and comprehension, while also gaining insights into how these elements shape
and influence literacy development. This dynamic course empowers educators to create a solid foundation for students' literacy skills and a lifelong
love of reading and writing within various learning environments.
D669 - Early Literacy Methods - Early Literacy Methods is a specialized course designed for educators and professionals passionate about nurturing
literacy skills in young children. This course offers an in-depth exploration of the foundational concepts and practices essential for promoting literacy
development in early childhood through the science of reading. Emphasizing the critical development in grades PK to third grade, the curriculum
covers topics such as phonemic awareness, language acquisition, and emergent reading and writing skills. Candidates learn how to create stimulating
and inclusive literacy environments, use developmentally appropriate materials, and engage with a variety of high-quality core instruction as part of
Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of support and assessment (MTSS) suited to the various needs of young learners, including learners with dyslexia.
Additionally, the course incorporates the latest research in early childhood literacy focusing on the science of reading and best practices for how
children learn to read and write. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, this course aims to prepare candidates with the
tools to effectively guide and inspire early literacy development in their classrooms.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 292
D670 - Elementary Literacy Methods - Elementary Literacy Methods is an engaging and comprehensive course designed for aspiring educators,
focusing on the development of effective literacy teaching strategies for elementary-level students. This course reviews the fundamental principles of
literacy education through science of reading, but takes a more specialized focus on vocabulary development, reading comprehension, and the deeply
complex literacy skills developed in grades 4 to 6. Candidates explore a variety of instructional approaches and materials tailored to support all
learners in the elementary classroom, including learners with dyslexia. This exposure will assist candidates in using Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of
support and assessment (MTSS) for planning and implementing literacy lessons, selecting appropriate resources, and assessing student progress.
D671 - Elementary Science Curriculum - Elementary Science Curriculum is a comprehensive course that provides an in-depth look at the development
and implementation of a robust, inquiry-based science curriculum that aligns with current educational standards and best practices. Participants
explore key concepts in teaching science to young learners, including major concepts within the Earth, life, and physical sciences. The curriculum
emphasizes the importance of cross-cutting concepts, science and engineering practices, and disciplinary core ideas in elementary science education
to support students’ conceptual understanding. By the end of the course, educators are prepared with the foundational knowledge and tools necessary
to inspire a lifelong interest in science among their students.
D672 - Elementary Science and Engineering Methods - Elementary Science and Engineering Methods is a dynamic and forward-thinking course
designed for educators who aim to integrate science and engineering practices into their elementary classroom. This course focuses on the
foundational methods of teaching science and engineering concepts, emphasizing hands-on, experiential learning. Students explore effective
strategies for fostering inquiry, creativity, and critical thinking among young learners through science experiences, engineering projects, and the use of
technology. The curriculum covers key topics such as the three-dimensional learning approach and scientific literacy and the nature of science.
Through intentional instructional decision-making and reflective practice, educators learn to create an inclusive, stimulating, and safe learning
environment that encourages students to explore, question, innovate, and participate in productive discourse in the fields of science and engineering.
D673 - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum is a thorough course tailored for educators looking to develop
and implement a rich, engaging social studies curriculum for elementary-aged students. This course offers an in-depth examination of the key
concepts and themes essential for teaching social studies effectively at the elementary level. Emphasizing a multidisciplinary approach, the curriculum
covers history, geography, civics, economics, and culture, ensuring a well-rounded understanding of the subject. Additionally, it addresses the
incorporation of standards into curriculum planning and the promotion of civic engagement among young learners. Through a blend of theoretical
knowledge, this course aims to prepare educators with the tools necessary to align instructional strategies with social studies standards in meaningful
ways.
D674 - Elementary Social Studies Methods - Elementary Social Studies Methods is a specialized course designed for learning effective and innovative
methods for teaching social studies at the elementary level. This course delves into the best practices for introducing young learners to the
complexities of history, geography, civics, economics, and culture. It emphasizes creating engaging, meaningful, and developmentally appropriate
learning experiences that foster critical thinking, empathy, and a deeper understanding of the world. This in-depth view of civic engagement fosters
effective collaboration and dialogue surrounding the influence of these concepts on our world today. Students learn how to design instruction using
themes, concepts, and modes of inquiry throughout the social studies disciplines. By the end of this course, educators gain the skills necessary to
inspire a passion for social studies and prepare students to be informed, thoughtful citizens.
D675 - Elementary Literacy Methods - Elementary Literacy Methods is an engaging and comprehensive course designed for aspiring educators,
focusing on the development of effective literacy teaching strategies for elementary-level students. This course reviews the fundamental principles of
literacy education through science of reading, but takes a more specialized focus on vocabulary development, reading comprehension, and the deeply
complex literacy skills developed in grades 4 to 6. Candidates explore a variety of instructional approaches and materials tailored to support all
learners in the elementary classroom, including learners with dyslexia. This exposure will assist candidates in using Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of
support and assessment (MTSS) for planning and implementing literacy lessons, selecting appropriate resources, and assessing student progress.
D676 - Early Literacy Methods - Early Literacy Methods is a specialized course designed for educators and professionals passionate about nurturing
literacy skills in young children. This course offers an in-depth exploration of the foundational concepts and practices essential for promoting literacy
development in early childhood through the science of reading. Emphasizing the critical development in grades PK to third grade, the curriculum
covers topics such as phonemic awareness, language acquisition, and emergent reading and writing skills. Candidates learn how to create stimulating
and inclusive literacy environments, use developmentally appropriate materials, and engage with a variety of high-quality core instruction as part of
Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of support and assessment (MTSS) suited to the various needs of young learners, including learners with dyslexia.
Additionally, the course incorporates the latest research in early childhood literacy focusing on the science of reading and best practices for how
children learn to read and write. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, this course aims to prepare candidates with the
tools to effectively guide and inspire early literacy development in their classrooms.
D677 - Elementary Literacy Curriculum - Elementary Literacy Curriculum is a comprehensive course that deepens an educator's knowledge of
language acquisition and progressively complex concepts and skills surrounding literacy. This course explores critical elements of the science of
reading and writing, including applying key theories and research used to support the development of literacy, evaluating diverse resources, and
utilizing purposeful oral, written, and digital communication in elementary curriculum. Candidates delve into the foundational aspects of literacy,
including phonological awareness, phonics, word analysis, fluency, and comprehension, while also gaining insights into how these elements shape
and influence literacy development. This dynamic course empowers educators to create a solid foundation for students' literacy skills and a lifelong
love of reading and writing within diverse learning environments.
D678 - Elementary Science Curriculum - Elementary Science Curriculum is a comprehensive course that provides an in-depth look at the development
and implementation of a robust, inquiry-based science curriculum that aligns with current educational standards and best practices. Participants
explore key concepts in teaching science to young learners, including major concepts within the Earth, life, and physical sciences. The curriculum
emphasizes the importance of cross-cutting concepts, science and engineering practices, and disciplinary core ideas in elementary science education
to support students’ conceptual understanding. By the end of the course, educators are prepared with the foundational knowledge and tools necessary
to inspire a lifelong interest in science among their students.
D679 - Elementary Science and Engineering Methods - "Elementary Science and Engineering Methods" is a dynamic and forward-thinking course
designed for educators who aim to integrate science and engineering practices into their elementary classroom. This course focuses on the
foundational methods of teaching science and engineering concepts, emphasizing hands-on, experiential learning. Students explore effective
strategies for fostering inquiry, creativity, and critical thinking among young learners through science experiences, engineering projects, and the use of
technology. The curriculum covers key topics such as the three-dimensional learning approach and scientific literacy and the nature of science.
Through intentional instructional decision-making and reflective practice, educators learn to create an inclusive, stimulating, and safe learning
environment that encourages students to explore, question, innovate, and participate in productive discourse in the fields of science and engineering.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 293
D680 - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum is a thorough course tailored for educators looking to develop
and implement a rich, engaging social studies curriculum for elementary-aged students. This course offers an in-depth examination of the key
concepts and themes essential for teaching social studies effectively at the elementary level. Emphasizing a multidisciplinary approach, the curriculum
covers history, geography, civics, economics, and culture, ensuring a well-rounded understanding of the subject. Additionally, it addresses the
incorporation of standards into curriculum planning and the promotion of civic engagement among young learners. Through a blend of theoretical
knowledge, this course aims to prepare educators with the tools necessary to align instructional strategies with social studies standards in meaningful
ways.
D681 - Elementary Social Studies Methods - Elementary Social Studies Methods is a specialized course designed for learning effective and innovative
methods for teaching social studies at the elementary level. This course delves into the best practices for introducing young learners to the
complexities of history, geography, civics, economics, and culture. It emphasizes creating engaging, meaningful, and developmentally appropriate
learning experiences that foster critical thinking, empathy, and a deeper understanding of the world. This in-depth view of civic engagement fosters
effective collaboration and dialogue surrounding the influence of these concepts on our world today. Students learn how to design instruction using
themes, concepts, and modes of inquiry throughout the social studies disciplines. By the end of this course, educators gain the skills necessary to
inspire a passion for social studies and prepare students to be informed, thoughtful citizens.
D682 - Artificial Intelligence Optimization for Computer Scientists - Artificial Intelligence Optimization for Computer Scientists guides students through
the implementation and optimization of artificial intelligence (AI) solutions for various applications. Through extensive research, students will explore
different AI approaches and determine the most applicable solutions for specific scenarios. Practical, hands-on exercises will enable students to
implement and rigorously test AI solutions, thus honing their skills in optimizing AI models for enhanced performance and efficiency. Additionally, this
course delves into creating data assumptions and interpretations that are crucial for predictive analytics and future data forecasting. Finally, students
will adapt and extend AI solutions to address diverse application scenarios, ensuring their readiness to tackle real-world challenges in AI optimization
and deployment. Introduction to Artificial Intelligence for Computer Scientists is a prerequisite to this course.
D683 - Advanced AI and ML - Advanced AI and ML provides an opportunity for students to exercise their knowledge and skills in the design and
development of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) solutions for real-world business problems. Through a hands-on project, students
delve into the design and execution planning stages. The course culminates with the development of a fully functional AI/ ML product.
D684 - Introduction to Computer Science - Introduction to Computer Science introduces learners to the field of computer science and its essential
concepts. In this course students will explore, among other topics, programming basics through language-agnostic pseudocode, computational
thinking and problem-solving, algorithms, hardware, and social and ethical considerations in the field. This course is designed for beginners to gain a
solid understanding of computer science principles and their applications and prepare students for further study in the field. There are no prerequisites
for this course.
D685 - Practical Applications of Prompt - The Practical Applications of Prompt course introduces learners to generative artificial intelligence (AI). This
course aims to allow learners to gain skills for writing effective prompts and develop more effective conversations with artificial intelligence. Practical
Applications of Prompt will lead learners to explore why prompt engineering is necessary. The course also aims to help learners, regardless of
background, increase prompt fluency, which is fluency in using prompt effectively. The course teaches learners how to create effective prompts to elicit
information with consideration of scope, specificity, and context; additionally, it teaches learners to evaluate the medium of the prompt and adjust
prompts to output relevant results. The last section of the course focuses on ways to evaluate the efficacy of prompts and improve the depth and
quality of analytical investigations. This approach prepares students to navigate the complexities of working with generative AI and use these skills
effectively throughout their careers.
D686 - Operating Systems for Computer Scientists - Operating Systems for Computer Scientists focuses on the intricacies of operating systems. This
comprehensive course for computer science students covers core principles such as processes, threads, memory management, and file systems,
providing students with insights into CPU scheduling algorithms, deadlock handling, and system performance optimization. Additionally, the course
delves into security mechanisms, addressing common threats and preventative measures. Through a blend of theoretical concepts and practical
applications, students emerge equipped to adeptly navigate operating system features and prepared for real-world challenges in computer science.
D687 - Computer Science Project Development with a Team - Computer Science Project Development with a Team has students prepare a prior
project for submission to a mock technical and executive leadership team. This course expands on the coding work done in a previous course, asking
students to submit three artifacts. The final artifact is a business proposal aimed at convincing stakeholders to implement the project, which includes
an executive summary of product requirements directed at the IT audience, as well as a technical report of the fully functional data product intended to
solve a real-world problem. Artifacts are evaluated by peer team members prior to submission, and students practice giving, receiving, and integrating
feedback into their work process.
D688 - Foundations of Literacy Through Literature - Foundations of Literacy through Literature is an enriching course designed for educators and
literacy enthusiasts, focusing on the exploration and utilization of literature to foster growth in the skills and concepts necessary for reading. This
course delves into the role of varied and age-appropriate literary works in the science of reading to develop reading, writing, speaking, and listening
abilities in learners. Students examine a broad range of genres to understand how different texts can be used to enhance vocabulary, comprehension,
and critical thinking. This analysis allows the candidate to not only successfully integrate literature into meaningful instruction, but it is designed to
cultivate a deep appreciation for reading itself. The curriculum emphasizes interactive and creative teaching strategies to engage learners effectively
and integrate culture into their literacy instruction. The candidate is given real-world examples for how to create an inclusive environment that respects
and celebrates different perspectives through quality text. By the end of the course, students are prepared with the knowledge and practical skills to
use literature as a powerful tool in the development of comprehensive literacy skills.
D689 - Literacy Assessment and Interventions - Literacy Assessment and Interventions is an essential course for candidates to enhance their skills in
identifying and addressing literacy challenges in all student populations, including students with dyslexia, through Tier1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 multi-tiered
systems of support and assessment (MTSS). This course reviews the science of reading associated with a wide range of assessments and techniques
used to evaluate reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills. Students learn to administer and interpret assessments, using the data to identify
specific literacy needs and learning gaps. A significant focus of the course is on designing and implementing targeted intervention strategies to support
student learning in areas, such as phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, comprehension, and vocabulary development. By exploring and
implementing actionable steps to monitor student progress, candidates gain expertise in improving literacy outcomes for all learners.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 294
D690 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy is an innovative course designed for candidates seeking to deepen their
understanding and application of literacy skills within specific academic disciplines. This course focuses on the unique literacy demands of content
disciplines, exploring how reading, writing, speaking, and listening are used differently in each domain. Students investigate the specialized language
structures and text features inherent to each discipline and learn strategies to help learners navigate and master these complexities. The curriculum
emphasizes the development of skills through the science of reading that enable candidates to guide learners in critically engaging with and producing
disciplinary texts. Candidates also explore ways to integrate technology and digital literacy into their teaching practices, enhancing students' ability to
access, interpret, and share discipline-specific information. Through a blend of research-based evidence and authentic learning activities using
structured literacy practices, this course aims to give educators the skills needed to effectively teach disciplinary literacy, thereby improving student
achievement and content understanding across all areas of study.
D691 - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum is a detailed and practical course designed for educators who seek
to expand their knowledge of the mathematics curriculum in elementary classrooms. This course provides the essential mathematical concepts
suitable for young learners, including numbers, operations, and algebraic thinking, spanning through the domains of geometry, measurement, data,
statistics, and probability. Emphasis is placed on engaging with a curriculum that not only aligns with educational standards but also nurtures a love for
mathematics. By the end of this course, candidates are provided with the tools and confidence to foster a strong mathematical foundation in their
elementary students.
D692 - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions is a comprehensive course designed for
educators focused on advancing mathematics education in the early elementary grades. This course emphasizes innovative and research-based
teaching methods for developing mathematical understanding in young children, particularly in the crucial developmental stages in PK through the
early elementary grades Participants will explore a variety of instructional strategies to support conceptual understanding and procedural fluency in
areas such as number sense, basic operations, and early problem-solving skills. A significant aspect of the course involves identifying and addressing
learning needs through targeted interventions, personalized instruction, and the use of manipulatives and digital tools. The curriculum also highlights
the importance of creating an engaging and inclusive learning environment that encourages exploration and curiosity in mathematics. By integrating
assessment techniques and thoughtful learning experiences, this course aims to provide educators with the skills to effectively nurture early
mathematical abilities and lay a strong foundation for future academic success in mathematics.
D693 - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions is an engaging course crafted for
educators who are dedicated to strengthening and enriching the mathematics education of elementary students. This course focuses on practical,
research-supported strategies for teaching essential mathematical concepts, including number operations, geometry, measurement, and data analysis.
This course includes resources for all elementary grade levels with a significant focus on grades 3 to 6. Participants learn to identify and assess
students' mathematical understanding, create differentiated learning experiences, and implement effective interventions for diverse learner needs.
Emphasis is placed on constructing a classroom environment that promotes mathematical curiosity, problem-solving, meaningful discourse, and a
growth mindset. Students acquire the skills to build authentic mathematics experiences that caters to the varied needs of all students, setting a firm
foundation for their future academic success in mathematics.
D694 - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods is a course designed to provide
educators with the knowledge and techniques to deliver effective and comprehensive health and physical education (PE) experiences in elementary
schools. This course covers a spectrum of topics, from fundamental movement skills to the promotion of lifelong health and wellness habits among
young learners. Students engage with current pedagogical approaches that emphasize the integration of health and physical education across various
subjects. The curriculum aims to address the needs of all students, fostering an inclusive environment that supports physical, mental, emotional, and
social health. Future educators also learn how to assess student progress in physical education and incorporate technology to enhance learning
experiences. By the end of this course, participants are prepared to inspire and motivate elementary students to lead active, healthy lifestyles and to
implement a health and PE curriculum.
D695 - Elementary Fine Arts Methods - Elementary Fine Arts Methods is a vibrant course designed for educators who wish to integrate the fine arts
into the elementary classroom. This course examines the best practices for teaching elements of the fine arts to young learners. Educators explore a
variety of instructional strategies to engage all learners, including activities developmentally appropriate and culturally responsive. The curriculum also
involves using the creative process and integrating with other content areas. By the end of the course, educators are equipped to foster an enriching
arts environment that encourages students to explore their creative potential.
D696 - Foundations of Literacy Through Literature - Foundations of Literacy through Literature is an enriching course designed for educators and
literacy enthusiasts, focusing on the exploration and utilization of literature to foster growth in the skills and concepts necessary for reading. This
course delves into the role of varied and age-appropriate literary works in the science of reading to develop reading, writing, speaking, and listening
abilities in learners. Students examine a broad range of genres to understand how different texts can be used to enhance vocabulary, comprehension,
and critical thinking. This analysis allows the candidate to not only successfully integrate literature into meaningful instruction, but it is designed to
cultivate a deep appreciation for reading itself. The curriculum emphasizes interactive and creative teaching strategies to engage learners effectively
and integrate culture into their literacy instruction. The candidate is given real-world examples for how to create an inclusive environment that respects
and celebrates different perspectives through quality text. By the end of the course, students are prepared with the knowledge and practical skills to
use literature as a powerful tool in the development of comprehensive literacy skills.
D697 - Literacy Assessment and Interventions - Literacy Assessment and Interventions is an essential course for candidates to enhance their skills in
identifying and addressing literacy challenges in all student populations, including students with dyslexia, through Tier1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 multi-tiered
systems of support and assessment (MTSS). This course reviews the science of reading associated with a wide range of assessments and techniques
used to evaluate reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills. Students learn to administer and interpret assessments, using the data to identify
specific literacy needs and learning gaps. A significant focus of the course is on designing and implementing targeted intervention strategies to support
student learning in areas, such as phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, comprehension, and vocabulary development. By exploring and
implementing actionable steps to monitor student progress, candidates gain expertise in improving literacy outcomes for all learners.
D698 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy is an innovative course designed for candidates seeking to deepen their
understanding and application of literacy skills within specific academic disciplines. This course focuses on the unique literacy demands of content
disciplines, exploring how reading, writing, speaking, and listening are used differently in each domain. Students investigate the specialized language
structures and text features inherent to each discipline and learn strategies to help learners navigate and master these complexities. The curriculum
emphasizes the development of skills through the science of reading that enable candidates to guide learners in critically engaging with and producing
disciplinary texts. Candidates also explore ways to integrate technology and digital literacy into their teaching practices, enhancing students' ability to
access, interpret, and share discipline-specific information. Through a blend of research-based evidence and authentic learning activities using
structured literacy practices, this course aims to give educators the skills needed to effectively teach disciplinary literacy, thereby improving student
achievement and content understanding across all areas of study.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 295
D699 - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum is a detailed and practical course designed for educators who seek
to expand their knowledge of the mathematics curriculum in elementary classrooms. This course provides the essential mathematical concepts
suitable for young learners, including numbers, operations, and algebraic thinking, spanning through the domains of geometry, measurement, data,
statistics, and probability. Emphasis is placed on engaging with a curriculum that not only aligns with educational standards but also nurtures a love for
mathematics. By the end of this course, candidates are provided with the tools and confidence to foster a strong mathematical foundation in their
elementary students.
D700 - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions is a comprehensive course designed for
educators focused on advancing mathematics education in the early elementary grades. This course emphasizes innovative and research-based
teaching methods for developing mathematical understanding in young children, particularly in the crucial developmental stages in PK through the
early elementary grades Participants will explore a variety of instructional strategies to support conceptual understanding and procedural fluency in
areas such as number sense, basic operations, and early problem-solving skills. A significant aspect of the course involves identifying and addressing
learning needs through targeted interventions, personalized instruction, and the use of manipulatives and digital tools. The curriculum also highlights
the importance of creating an engaging and inclusive learning environment that encourages exploration and curiosity in mathematics. By integrating
assessment techniques and thoughtful learning experiences, this course aims to provide educators with the skills to effectively nurture early
mathematical abilities and lay a strong foundation for future academic success in mathematics.
D701 - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions is an engaging course crafted for
educators who are dedicated to strengthening and enriching the mathematics education of elementary students. This course focuses on practical,
research-supported strategies for teaching essential mathematical concepts, including number operations, geometry, measurement, and data analysis.
This course includes resources for all elementary grade levels with a significant focus on grades 3 to 6. Participants learn to identify and assess
students' mathematical understanding, create differentiated learning experiences, and implement effective interventions for diverse learner needs.
Emphasis is placed on constructing a classroom environment that promotes mathematical curiosity, problem-solving, meaningful discourse, and a
growth mindset. Students acquire the skills to build authentic mathematics experiences that caters to the varied needs of all students, setting a firm
foundation for their future academic success in mathematics.
D702 - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods is a course designed to provide
educators with the knowledge and techniques to deliver effective and comprehensive health and physical education (PE) experiences in elementary
schools. This course covers a spectrum of topics, from fundamental movement skills to the promotion of lifelong health and wellness habits among
young learners. Students engage with current pedagogical approaches that emphasize the integration of health and physical education across various
subjects. The curriculum aims to address the needs of all students, fostering an inclusive environment that supports physical, mental, emotional, and
social health. Future educators also learn how to assess student progress in physical education and incorporate technology to enhance learning
experiences. By the end of this course, participants are prepared to inspire and motivate elementary students to lead active, healthy lifestyles and to
implement a health and PE curriculum.
D703 - Elementary Fine Arts Methods - Elementary Fine Arts Methods is a vibrant course designed for educators who wish to integrate the fine arts
into the elementary classroom. This course examines the best practices for teaching elements of the fine arts to young learners. Educators explore a
variety of instructional strategies to engage all learners, including activities developmentally appropriate and culturally responsive. The curriculum also
involves using the creative process and integrating with other content areas. By the end of the course, educators are equipped to foster an enriching
arts environment that encourages students to explore their creative potential.
D705 - Early Clinical in Special Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge
and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the mentorship of
experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of classroom dynamics,
student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants to analyze their
experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future teachers with the
confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D706 - Early Clinical in Elementary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D707 - Early Clinical in Secondary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D708 - Advanced Clinical in Elementary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D709 - Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 296
D717 - Student Teaching I in Elementary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D718 - Student Teaching II in Elementary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D719 - Student Teaching I in Special Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate and
reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies rooted in students'
learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will receive ongoing
feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional practices as
educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant. Additionally, the course
features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive learning environments,
and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D720 - Student Teaching II in Special Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate professional
ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and skills
developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D721 - Student Teaching I in Secondary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D722 - Student Teaching II in Secondary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D723 - Advanced Clinical in Special Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D724 - Early Clinical in Elementary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D725 - Early Clinical in Special Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge
and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the mentorship of
experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of classroom dynamics,
student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants to analyze their
experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future teachers with the
confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 297
D726 - Early Clinical in Secondary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D727 - Advanced Clinical in Elementary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D728 - Advanced Clinical in Special Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D729 - Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D737 - Student Teaching I in Elementary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D738 - Student Teaching II in Elementary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D739 - Student Teaching I in Special Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate and
reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies rooted in students'
learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will receive ongoing
feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional practices as
educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant. Additionally, the course
features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive learning environments,
and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D740 - Student Teaching II in Special Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate professional
ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and skills
developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D741 - Student Teaching I in Secondary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 298
D742 - Student Teaching II in Secondary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D743 - Education Portfolio - Education Portfolio is an innovative course designed to guide candidates in the creation and development of a
comprehensive professional portfolio, specifically tailored for educators. This course emphasizes the importance of documenting and reflecting upon
one's educational philosophy, teaching experiences, and professional achievements. Candidates learn how to effectively showcase their skills in
curriculum design, classroom management, student assessment, and educational technology. The course also covers strategies for integrating
evidence of student learning and feedback into the portfolio. Candidates create a polished and dynamic portfolio that not only highlights their unique
educational journey, but also serves as a powerful tool for career advancement and lifelong learning in the field of education.
D744 - Student Teaching I in Elementary and Special Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for
all candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D745 - Student Teaching II in Elementary and Special Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course
for all candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the
responsibilities and skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This
evaluation assesses activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust
teaching methods, and the willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the
licensure process, as it determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions
that delve into professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must
attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D750 - Early Clinical in Elementary and Special Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between
theoretical knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D751 - Advanced Clinical in Elementary and Special Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience.
This course emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom
environments under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement
techniques, instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment.
Through this immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching
style and philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part
of an engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D752 - The Education Professional - The Education Professional prepares WGU students to excel in the exciting and impactful profession of being an
educator. Additionally, the course addresses the importance of continuous professional development and ethical considerations in teaching through
the School of Education (SOE) Professional Dispositions and Ethics. Upon completion of the course, WGU students will be equipped with the tools and
insights needed to continue their professional journey of becoming effective, inspiring, and adaptive educators, capable of making a significant impact
in the lives of their students and the broader educational community. Students will also start a research-based professional portfolio. (This is not a
transferable course.)
D753 - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis prepares
special education teachers to work effectively with students exhibiting challenging behaviors, with a focus on students with behavioral and emotional
exceptionalities. This course provides an overview of behavior disorders and their characteristics, as well as appropriate research-based intervention
strategies, including positive behavior intervention and supports, multitiered systems of support (MTSS), applied behavior analysis, replacement
behavior, and reinforcement strategies, culturally responsive practices, and data collection and assessment methods. After completing this course,
learners emerge prepared to strategize and recommend adjustments to the learning environment that support positive behavior and student success in
the classroom and beyond. This course also examines behavioral assessment and analysis, functional behavior assessment (FBA), and the creation
and monitoring of behavioral improvement plans (BIP) that can be implemented in an authentic learning environment.
D754 - Special Education Law, Policies and Procedures - Special Education Law, Policies, and Procedures prepares special education teachers to
practice within legal and ethical guidelines as they navigate the Special Education processes, stakeholder interactions, and other complex situations.
This course provides an overview of the professional ethics and professional practice standards of the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC), which
guides candidates to act in a professionally conscientious manner. Candidates will explore special education legal foundations and case laws to apply
legal foundations and ethical practices in special education process compliance.
D755 - Assessment for Special Education - Assessment for Special Education prepares special education teachers to use multiple methods of
assessment and data sources in making educational decisions concerning the student and their learning environment. This course is designed to help
provide an understanding of how assessment data is used during screening in multitiered systems of support (MTSS), the eligibility process, the
evaluation process, progress monitoring, and data-based instructional decision making.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 299
D756 - Individualized Education Plan (IEP) Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff - Individualized Education Plan (IEP)
Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff prepares special education teachers to collaborate effectively with parents, school
staff, and other professionals to plan programs and access services for students with exceptionalities. This includes applying culturally responsive
communication strategies within school, educational settings, and the community. The course introduces ways to enhance parental involvement and
family engagement while teaching families and students advocacy throughout the Individualized Education Plan (IEP) and transition planning
processes. The learner will create an IEP and then engage in a simulated IEP annual review where they will practice effective communication and
collaboration skills key to the program's development and implementation. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experiences that
includes a simulated collaborative experience in which skills learned can be applied.
D757 - Special Education Curriculum - Special Education Curriculum is designed for candidates who plan to teach in a special education program at
any grade level from kindergarten through grade 12. This course reviews the basic principles of special education and their application in realistic
situations. Its focus is on five major content areas: Development and Characteristics of Learners, Planning and the Learning Environment, Instruction,
Assessment, and Foundations and Professional Responsibilities which align to CEC Standards.
D758 - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners is designed to introduce special
education teachers to a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the learning of students with exceptionalities. The course
focuses specifically on strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions; making instructional decisions based on progress-
monitoring data; collaborating with general education teachers and paraprofessionals; teaching to mastery; promoting generalization of learning; and
teaching students with exceptionalities how to use self-assessment, problem solving, and other cognitive strategies to organize critical content and
meet their needs.
D759 - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for elementary
students with exceptionalities. The course includes cognitive and metacognitive strategies that elementary students can use to acquire new content
knowledge and generalize skills across learning environments. It also provides opportunities for learners to incorporate intensive instructional
strategies and practice making accommodations that include assistive technologies to elementary math and English language arts lesson plans based
on learner characteristics, performance data, and individualized education program (IEP) goals.
D760 - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for use with
secondary students with exceptionalities. This course focuses on intensive instruction and accommodation that includes assistive technology to
secondary lesson plans. Learners will apply strategies to develop student critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Learners will assess and measure
student progress towards the Individualized Education Program (IEP) and transition goals for post-secondary and career preparation.
D761 - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis prepares
special education teachers to work effectively with students exhibiting challenging behaviors, with a focus on students with behavioral and emotional
exceptionalities. This course provides an overview of behavior disorders and their characteristics, as well as appropriate research-based intervention
strategies, including positive behavior intervention and supports, multitiered systems of support (MTSS), applied behavior analysis, replacement
behavior, and reinforcement strategies, culturally responsive practices, and data collection and assessment methods. After completing this course,
learners emerge prepared to strategize and recommend adjustments to the learning environment that support positive behavior and student success in
the classroom and beyond. This course also examines behavioral assessment and analysis, functional behavior assessment (FBA), and the creation
and monitoring of behavioral improvement plans (BIP) that can be implemented in an authentic learning environment.
D762 - Special Education Law, Policies and Procedures - Special Education Law, Policies, and Procedures prepares special education teachers to
practice within legal and ethical guidelines as they navigate the Special Education processes, stakeholder interactions, and other complex situations.
This course provides an overview of the professional ethics and professional practice standards of the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC), which
guides candidates to act in a professionally conscientious manner. Candidates will explore special education legal foundations and case laws to apply
legal foundations and ethical practices in special education process compliance.
D763 - Assessment for Special Education - Assessment for Special Education prepares special education teachers to use multiple methods of
assessment and data sources in making educational decisions concerning the student and their learning environment. This course is designed to help
provide an understanding of how assessment data is used during screening in multitiered systems of support (MTSS), the eligibility process, the
evaluation process, progress monitoring, and data-based instructional decision making.
D764 - Individualized Education Plan (IEP) Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff - Individualized Education Plan (IEP)
Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff prepares special education teachers to collaborate effectively with parents, school
staff, and other professionals to plan programs and access services for students with exceptionalities. This includes applying culturally responsive
communication strategies within school, educational settings, and the community. The course introduces ways to enhance parental involvement and
family engagement while teaching families and students advocacy throughout the Individualized Education Plan (IEP) and transition planning
processes. The learner will create an IEP and then engage in a simulated IEP annual review where they will practice effective communication and
collaboration skills key to the program's development and implementation. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experiences that
includes a simulated collaborative experience in which skills learned can be applied.
D765 - Special Education Curriculum - Special Education Curriculum is designed for candidates who plan to teach in a special education program at
any grade level from kindergarten through grade 12. This course reviews the basic principles of special education and their application in realistic
situations. Its focus is on five major content areas: Development and Characteristics of Learners, Planning and the Learning Environment, Instruction,
Assessment, and Foundations and Professional Responsibilities which align to CEC Standards.
D766 - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners is designed to introduce special
education teachers to a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the learning of students with exceptionalities. The course
focuses specifically on strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions; making instructional decisions based on progress-
monitoring data; collaborating with general education teachers and paraprofessionals; teaching to mastery; promoting generalization of learning; and
teaching students with exceptionalities how to use self-assessment, problem solving, and other cognitive strategies to organize critical content and
meet their needs.
D767 - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for elementary
students with exceptionalities. The course includes cognitive and metacognitive strategies that elementary students can use to acquire new content
knowledge and generalize skills across learning environments. It also provides opportunities for learners to incorporate intensive instructional
strategies and practice making accommodations that include assistive technologies to elementary math and English language arts lesson plans based
on learner characteristics, performance data, and individualized education program (IEP) goals.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 300
D768 - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for use with
secondary students with exceptionalities. This course focuses on intensive instruction and accommodation that includes assistive technology to
secondary lesson plans. Learners will apply strategies to develop student critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Learners will assess and measure
student progress towards the Individualized Education Program (IEP) and transition goals for post-secondary and career preparation.
D769 - Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions - Secondary Literacy Methods & Interventions utilizes MTSS to equip educators with evidence-
based strategies to address adolescents' reading challenges through the Multi-Tiered System of Supports Model. Candidates learn to identify, monitor,
and provide differentiated instruction, integrating screening tools and progress monitoring to enhance comprehension. The course emphasizes the
development of personalized intervention plans while utilizing reading assessments for informed instructional decisions. By completion, candidates
compile intervention strategies supporting learners across MTSS tiers, fostering inclusive environments for academic success.
D770 - Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions - Secondary Literacy Methods & Interventions utilizes MTSS to equip educators with evidence-
based strategies to address adolescents' reading challenges through the Multi-Tiered System of Supports Model. Candidates learn to identify, monitor,
and provide differentiated instruction, integrating screening tools and progress monitoring to enhance comprehension. The course emphasizes the
development of personalized intervention plans while utilizing reading assessments for informed instructional decisions. By completion, candidates
compile intervention strategies supporting learners across MTSS tiers, fostering inclusive environments for academic success.
D771 - Quantitative Literacy - Quantitative Literacy views real-world problems through the lens of quantitative reasoning. The application of quantitative
concepts to topics such as financial decisions is explored. Algebraic models and functions, as well as principles of geometry, are reviewed as
fundamental ways to explore real-life scenarios. The use of mathematical concepts as a tool for modeling and understanding everyday problems is
leveraged to promote students' thinking of math as a useful and relevant tool for many situations and scenarios. Numeracy and quantitative thinking
skills are developed through these applications.
D772 - Statistical Data Literacy - Statistical Data Literacy utilizes concepts in statistics, research, data, and data representation to explore the
interpretation of data and their application to decision-making. The course uses real-world scenarios to build upon foundational principles of data
collection and description. The use of data to make and explain decisions is also explored. The course also builds on skills of descriptive statistics and
graphical depictions of data to help students understand data and make data-based decisions. This course has no prerequisites.
D773 - Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and Society - Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and Society explores the intersection of
ethical thinking and technological innovations. A foundational introduction to ethical frameworks is applied to emerging trends in technology, including
artificial intelligence, social media, and other forms of digital media. This course examines the impact of technology on our understanding of self, as
well as the individual’s role in interacting with others in a globalized society. The course helps students gain the ability to recognize ethical actions
within the context of current and newly evolving technological landscapes. This course has no prerequisites.
D774 - Introduction to Business Accounting - Introduction to Business Accounting provides students with an introduction to the discipline of accounting
and its context within the business environment. This course will help students gain a fundamental knowledge of the role of financial and managerial
accounting and the use of financial statements, budgeting, and managing costs and profits in business. This course is designed for business generalist
students. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D775 - Introduction to Business Finance - Introduction to Business Finance provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of finance and
its context within the business environment. This course will help students gain an understanding of the systems, structure, roles, and impact of
finance in business. Students will also gain an understanding of the uses of financial ratios, the application of the time value of money concepts, and
capital budgeting in business. This course provides the student a business generalist overview of the field of finance. The prerequisite for this course is
Introduction to Business Accounting.
D776 - Healthcare Leadership and Community Engagement - Healthcare Leadership and Community Engagement focuses on leadership principles
and how to apply them in real-world contexts. The course prepares students to analyze community needs and create change through community
engagement. As leaders, the students' job is to engage in collaborative approaches with an understanding that the overarching goal is sustained
success. This course helps students develop their abilities to negotiate challenges, make decisions, and act to bring stakeholders together to create
transformation within communities. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D777 - Real Life Applications of Data Structures - Real Life Applications of Data Structures covers basic to advanced topics in data structures and their
associated algorithms with a focus on real world examples and applications. This course focuses on problem-solving techniques for designing efficient
and maintainable software solutions using Python.
D778 - Advanced Software Engineering - Advanced Software Engineering delves into the intricate processes and methodologies essential for
developing sophisticated, scalable software architectures. This course offers an in-depth exploration of the software engineering lifecycle, emphasizing
a disciplined approach to navigating the complex challenges of software engineering. Students will explore advanced process frameworks and
methodologies, including the Waterfall Model and Agile Development, tailored to large-scale and high-stakes projects.
D779 - Software Product Design and Requirement Engineering - Software Product Design and Requirement Engineering provides an in-depth
exploration into effectively integrating user needs and system requirements into software development. This course covers topics from types of
requirements, requirement gathering techniques, prioritization, and documentation.
D780 - Software Architecture and Design - This course covers topics in designing, analyzing, and managing large-scale software systems. Students
will learn various architecture types, how to select and implement appropriate design patterns, and how to build well-structured, reliable, and secure
software systems.
D781 - Software Quality Assurance and Deployment - This course equips students with the skills and knowledge necessary for ensuring high-quality
software development and effective deployment practices. The curriculum covers quality models and metrics, QA methods, automated testing, and the
design and implementation of test cases. This course introduces students to continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines and
tools, performance testing, and the tools required for assessing software performance. Students will also learn about deployment strategies, rollback
procedures, disaster recovery plans, and monitoring and logging practices, each crucial for the software's operational integrity in production
environments.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 301
D782 - Network Architecture and Cloud Computing - In this course, students are equipped to understand, analyze, and implement cloud computing
solutions tailored to diverse business needs. The curriculum offers an in-depth look at state-of-the-art cloud technologies, the underlying business
trends fueling cloud adoption, and the foundational systems of modern data center computing. Participants will learn to identify and apply various cloud
systems to specific business cases, understand the interplay between network systems to form cloud computing environments, and utilize cloud
computing models to address infrastructure challenges. A focus on network security enables learners to assess and enhance network security
systems, covering cybersecurity principles, perimeter security, authentication, and the creation of secure networks. The course also delves into
scalable distributed systems and programming frameworks that facilitate edge computing, illustrating how cloud-based solutions can resolve real-world
business problems.
D783 - DevOps Foundations - The DevOps Foundations course will provide students with a comprehensive introduction to the core principles and
practices of DevOps, focusing on infrastructure, configuration, software engineering/operations, and the cultural shifts necessary for successful
implementation. Students will understand the history, principles, and business benefits of DevOps, along with practical skills in utilizing basic
toolchains and implementing automation and continuous processes throughout the DevOps lifecycle.
D784 - Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery - In this course, students will learn advanced DevOps practices essential for modern software
development environments. Students will master container orchestration techniques to enhance application scalability, resilience, and high availability.
They will learn to configure build servers using automated scripts, integrating robust integration testing and quality checks seamlessly into the
development pipeline. Students will develop comprehensive release management plans designed to ensure smooth and reliable software releases
with minimal downtime. They will explore the implementation of automated deployment pipelines, enabling continuous delivery and facilitating rapid,
incremental releases of software updates. Students will gain insights into analyzing performance indicators to optimize software development and
delivery processes continuously.
D785 - DevOps Security - In the DevOps Security course, students will explore tools to continuously monitor for security risks. By utilizing industry best
practices, learners fortify code repositories through robust access control, encryption, monitoring, and vulnerability management strategies. Students
will learn about secure access control mechanisms vital for safeguarding build and deployment environments against unauthorized access, data
breaches, and malicious activities. Students will analyze advanced techniques to enhance monitoring and reporting processes, empowering effective
risk management and informed decision-making. They will gain the techniques needed to quickly identify and resolve incidents, ensuring uninterrupted
service and minimizing business impact.
D786 - Microservices Design and Architecture - In this course, students will demonstrate their knowledge of microservice design and architecture.
Students will analyze a business’s needs to find what best matches their software architecture needs. Additionally, students will follow key design
principles to create a microservice while explaining why the design pattern is the most efficient for a project. Upon completion of the course, students
will create a deployment strategy for efficiency and effectiveness.
D787 - Scalability and Performance Optimization - This course prepares students to learn how to analyze real-world systems to make informed
decisions to improve overall design, performance, and reliability. Students will create tests that validate both scalability and reliability as well as apply
theoretical to real-world design, performance, and reliability systems.
D788 - Domain Driven Design - This course covers key concepts of Domain Driven Design, including bounded context, context mapping, subdomains,
entities, value objects, aggregates, aggregate roots, domain events, and their relation to other design patterns. Students will learn practical
implementation strategies, collaboration with domain experts, model refinement, documentation, critiques, and case studies.
D789 - Applied Machine Learning for Business Solutions - This course is designed to familiarize students with machine learning through the lens of a
software engineer. Students will explore the challenges and opportunities of applying machine learning to solve problems and create strategic
objectives. Students will explore various industries and learn how to apply machine learning to address business needs. While in this course,
students will demonstrate how to effectively communicate their recommendations to a range of stakeholders.
D790 - Human Centered AI - This course provides students with the opportunity to learn about how AI systems are designed to align with human
behavior and values. Students will characterize human centered design as it relates to AI, while analyzing the ethical implications of AI solutions on
both individuals and society. Students gain insights into the impact of AI on humans and human values. Finally, students will understand and explain
how to incorporate mechanisms for human oversight and control in AI systems. This learning will focus on the deep analysis of software engineering
as it relates to complex understanding of human/AI interactions.
D791 - Integrating AI with Modern Software Applications - Integrating AI with Modern Software Applications prepares students to analyze and explain
various technical and analytical components of machine learning models. Students will explore the design of system architectures to scale, while
looking at potential risks and mitigation strategies for integrating AI into existing software applications. The content in this course will give the student
the ability to understand how to describe data used by AI systems, its sources, and characteristics, as well as instructing on methods for deployment
and monitoring.
D793 - Formal Languages Overview - Formal Languages Overview introduces students to programming language design and theory, focusing on
formal semantics and type systems. It covers imperative, functional, and parallel languages, emphasizing techniques for proving language properties
and verifying program specifications. Students will differentiate between functional and procedural languages, and explore compiled, interpreted,
query, and assembly languages. The course also examines the structure and features of programming languages, including object-oriented
programming principles. Learners will understand program correctness, testing, and verification, addressing type correctness. This course prepares
students to assess programming languages against business requirements, enhancing software reliability and efficiency. Aimed at those interested in
the theoretical underpinnings of programming languages, it equips students with knowledge to make informed decisions in software development and
application.
D794 - Computer Architecture and Systems - Computer Architecture and Systems offers a comprehensive examination of the design and development
of computer systems. Students will explore the evolution of computer architecture, understanding how computers have advanced and changed over
time. The course covers different layouts and designs used in both hardware and software solutions, helping students to grasp the complex structures
of computer systems. Students will learn how to develop detailed plans for implementing computing solutions that work across various platforms. The
course likewise covers how to integrate various devices to ensure they operate and communicate smoothly with each other.
D795 - Applied Algorithms and Reasoning - This course builds on foundational knowledge of algorithm design and optimization for efficient resource
utilization. It emphasizes benchmarking algorithms, reasoning, and applying Big O notation for performance evaluation. This course will cover how to
design, analyze, and implement algorithms to solve complex computational problems, focusing on optimizing performance and enhancing system
efficiency. The practical applications in this course involve testing data structures, developing algorithmic solutions, and optimizing algorithm
performance through critical analysis and implementation. By integrating computational thinking and engineering principles, this course will present the
skills students need to develop and optimize algorithms for real-world software, using benchmarking and profiling tools to measure and enhance
performance.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 302
D796 - Unix and Linux - Unix and Linux offers a comprehensive introduction to these operating systems, focusing on essential skills used in system
administration and development roles. This course equips students with the ability to employ the most common commands, navigate the Unix/Linux
shell, manage files and directories, configure the shell environment, and create shell scripts to automate routine tasks. This hands-on approach
prepares students to competently manage and maintain Unix and Linux systems in real-world applications. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D797 - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Foundations - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Foundations explores foundational
concepts and practical applications of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML). It provides students with an understanding of the historical
context and evolution of AI and the subsequent growth phases of AI technologies. This course will investigate the computational theories and logical
frameworks that have shaped the AI landscape, examining how advancements in hardware have enabled the leap from basic ML to the complexities of
deep learning. The course emphasizes the practicalities of AI and ML and gives insights into the critical role of data integrity and the techniques for
data wrangling to feed into ML algorithms effectively. In addition to the technical skills, the course incorporates the societal implications of AI and ML,
discussing current ethical considerations. This course aims to create a nuanced understanding of AI and ML, preparing students to thoughtfully
consider the broader impacts of these technologies. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D798 - Emerging Computing Systems - Emerging Computing Systems offers learners an exploration into the cutting-edge technologies and trends
driving the future of computing, with a particular focus on internet computing systems. This course explores advanced computing topics, providing an
in-depth analysis and evaluation of state-of-the-art technologies across nine broad categories: hardware architectures and operating systems,
networking and distributed systems, cloud and data centers, system design and integration, security, performance and scalability, system integration,
energy efficiency, and emerging technologies. The course will critically examine emerging technologies, their design principles, and their system
optimizations and provide insights to the design and optimization of modern computing systems. This course provides a blend of conceptual learning
and practical application, allowing students to develop the expertise needed to lead in the evolving computing landscape. Computer Architecture and
Systems is a prerequisite for this course.
D799 - Mobile and Ubiquitous Design - Mobile and Ubiquitous Design blends in-depth technical knowledge of computing systems like sensors,
processors, embedded systems design, communication protocols, and connectivity technologies with user-centered design principles for creating
functional and engaging mobile applications. The course will demonstrate how to apply design thinking and UX methods such as user personas,
usability testing, and addressing real-world challenges to develop scalable, secure, and ethical solutions that optimize the interplay between various
devices. By emphasizing privacy considerations and the ability to adapt across different user environments, this course prepares students to become
proficient in analyzing user needs and designing synchronized multi-device systems through mobile apps that effectively meet those requirements.
D800 - Human-Computer Interaction - Human-Computer Interaction is a course that covers the principles of human-computer interaction (HCI),
incorporating insights from psychology, design, and engineering to understand user interactions. This course prepares students to design and evaluate
user-centered systems using tools like wireframing and eye tracking. The course addresses ethical implications, focusing on privacy, consent, and
accessibility. Additionally, the course helps students develop basic data analysis skills for interpreting user testing results and complete the CITI
Institutional Review Board (IRB) Protocol Review for working with human subjects. The main goal of the course is to teach students how to create
intuitive, accessible, and engaging interactive systems informed by user testing.
D801 - Machine Learning for Computer Scientists - Machine Learning for Computer Scientists provides a comprehensive introduction to foundational
machine learning algorithms and their applications, aligned with the AWS Certified Machine Learning—Specialty (MLS-C01). The course covers
supervised learning techniques such as linear regression, logistic regression, decision trees, and support vector machines, as well as unsupervised
learning methods like clustering and dimensionality reduction. Essential concepts in model evaluation, selection, and optimization are also covered,
including cross validation, hyperparameter tuning, and ensemble methods. Designed specifically for computer scientists, this course sets the
groundwork for advanced studies in deep learning and natural language processing. This course teaches students machine learning (ML) techniques
of supervised and unsupervised ML methods using Python programming language.
D802 - Deep Learning - Deep Learning delves into the fundamental principles, underlying mathematics, and implementation details of deep learning.
The curriculum is designed to provide a robust understanding of the core concepts and methodologies essential for optimizing highly parameterized
models. Key topics include gradient descent, backpropagation, and the broader framework of computation graphs. The course explores the essential
modules that constitute deep learning models, such as linear, convolution, and pooling layers, along with various activation functions. The course also
covers common neural network architectures, including convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and recurrent neural networks (RNNs), equipping
students with the skills needed to design, implement, and optimize advanced deep learning systems. Through hands-on projects and practical
applications, the course prepares students to gain the expertise to tackle real-world challenges using deep learning techniques.
D803 - Natural Language Processing - Natural Language Processing offers an in-depth exploration of modern data-driven techniques for natural
language processing (NLP). The course progresses from basic text preprocessing methods to advanced machine-learning (ML) models specifically
tailored for NLP tasks. Topics include sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, machine translation, and the use of advanced neural network
architectures such as recurrent neural networks (RNNs), long short-term memory (LSTM), and transformers. Industry-standard tools and frameworks
are covered for practical applications and project-based learning. For successful completion of this course, learners should take AI and ML
Foundations, Machine Learning for Computer Scientists, and Deep Learning prior to this course.
D804 - Advanced AI for Computer Scientists - Advanced AI for Computer Scientists synthesizes principles of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine
learning (ML) to equip students with the skills needed to design sophisticated AI systems that address real-world problems. The course explores
cutting-edge techniques such as meta-learning, zero-shot and few-shot learning, and advanced ensemble methods. The course also covers state-of-
the-art deep-learning architectures, reinforcement-learning strategies, and probabilistic-reasoning models. Additionally, the course prepares students
to critically evaluate AI systems for performance, efficiency, sustainability, and ethical considerations, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of
advanced AI applications.
D805 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy is a cutting-edge course designed for candidates seeking to enhance their
literacy skills within specific secondary academic disciplines. The course examines the distinct literacy needs of various secondary content areas,
focusing on how reading, writing, speaking, and listening function differently in each discipline. Candidates will explore specialized language structures
and text features relevant to each field and develop strategies to help students master these complexities. The curriculum integrates the science of
reading to support critical engagement with and production of disciplinary texts, while also incorporating technology and digital literacy to aid students
in accessing and interpreting discipline-specific information. The course combines research-based evidence with practical, structured literacy activities
to equip educators with the skills necessary to improve student achievement and understanding across all subjects. This course is a required
component in SCED programs and will be assessed through a performance assessment task for both undergraduate and graduate versions.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 303
D806 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy is a cutting-edge course designed for candidates seeking to enhance their
literacy skills within specific secondary academic disciplines. The course examines the distinct literacy needs of various secondary content areas,
focusing on how reading, writing, speaking, and listening function differently in each discipline. Candidates will explore specialized language structures
and text features relevant to each field and develop strategies to help students master these complexities. The curriculum integrates the science of
reading to support critical engagement with and production of disciplinary texts, while also incorporating technology and digital literacy to aid students
in accessing and interpreting discipline-specific information. The course combines research-based evidence with practical, structured literacy activities
to equip educators with the skills necessary to improve student achievement and understanding across all subjects. This course is a required
component in SCED programs and will be assessed through a performance assessment task for both undergraduate and graduate versions.
D807 - General Secondary Methods - General Secondary Methods prepares students for secondary teaching by equipping them with essential
instructional skills and knowledge tailored to adolescent learners. Students will explore how adolescent development influences learning, how
secondary school settings influence instructional choices, and how to implement effective teaching strategies in these environments. Through a blend
of theory and practical application, students will create and assess lesson plans, focusing on differentiated instruction, formative and summative
assessments, and the integration of technology, including AI tools, to promote affective learning in diverse secondary education settings.
D808 - General Secondary Methods - General Secondary Methods prepares students for secondary teaching by equipping them with essential
instructional skills and knowledge tailored to adolescent learners. Students will explore how adolescent development influences learning, how
secondary school settings influence instructional choices, and how to implement effective teaching strategies in these environments. Through a blend
of theory and practical application, students will create and assess lesson plans, focusing on differentiated instruction, formative and summative
assessments, and the integration of technology, including AI tools, to promote affective learning in diverse secondary education settings.
D835 - Social Studies Methods I - Social Studies Methods I prepares teacher candidates to effectively teach social studies in secondary education
settings, focusing on grades 7–9, while aligning with the Praxis 5081 Social Studies Content Knowledge test. The course emphasizes developing
comprehensive, standards-aligned lesson plans and employing innovative teaching strategies. Combining theory with practice, the course emphasizes
critical thinking, historical inquiry, and civic competence through differentiated instruction with diverse learners, formative and summative assessments,
and technology integration. Candidates will engage in reflective practices while exploring integrated approaches to teaching and learning, focusing on
the central role of inquiry. The course integrates pedagogy with content knowledge, including the NCSS (National Council for the Social Studies)
themes and C3 (College, Career, and Civic Life) Framework dimensions, and applies universal design principles and authentic learning experiences.
Methods include teaching via big ideas, civic responsibilities, and evidence-based strategies to aid students in constructing meaning through social
studies lenses. Candidates will develop dispositions of social studies educators, analyze resources, and communicate effectively with stakeholders
about sensitive topics.
D836 - Social Studies Methods II - Social Studies Methods II prepares educators to employ effective teaching strategies for social studies in grades 10–
12, including psychology, economics, US history II, world history II, and government/political science. Emphasizing inquiry-based learning and
integrated approaches, the course addresses pedagogical considerations and content alignment specific to secondary education. Methods include
teaching through big ideas, civic discourse, inquiry, and problem-solving. Candidates apply these strategies to design instruction that fosters students'
understanding across social studies disciplines. The course integrates inquiry-based learning with historical analysis, examining global connections
and governance systems.
D837 - Secondary Social Studies Curriculum - Secondary Social Studies Curriculum explores the key concepts of U.S. history, world history,
economics, government, geography, and social sciences. Designed for aspiring social studies educators, this course will refresh and deepen
candidates’ understanding of the material they will teach in secondary classrooms and prepare them for the Praxis Social Studies (5081) exam.
Candidates in this course will learn to compare historical concepts and resources as they develop the best materials for their classrooms.
D838 - Teaching Adolescent Literature in Secondary Schools - Teaching Adolescent Literature in Secondary Schools, designed for current and
aspiring secondary school teachers, delves into the intricacies of teaching adolescent literature and integrates secondary learners, methods, and
settings with discipline-specific considerations for teaching literature. The course equips educators with the skills to implement English Language Arts
instruction that integrates a deep understanding of adolescent learners and literacy development and promote literacy for adolescent students.
Learners will plan standards-based literature instruction informed by evidence-based approaches to teach their students how to perform critical
analysis of texts across genres. These strategies will foster inclusive learning environments and plan equitable and inclusive instruction that aligns to
standards and facilitate the needs of all learners. Additionally, the course teaches the planning of research-based assessments to monitor students'
reading skills and progress toward learning outcomes. Teachers will also engage in reflective practices to enhance their instructional strategies and
improve student learning outcomes in English literature.
D839 - Teaching Writing in Secondary Schools - Teaching Writing in Secondary Schools is the second of three English discipline methods courses in
the standard path. This course focuses on developing writing skills in adolescent learners and includes consideration of writing across a range of real-
world contexts and genres, the writing process, and assessment of writing skills. Connections to the science of learning and the science of reading are
spiraled throughout the content. Considerations of technology integration and different media modalities are included. This course will be assessed via
one integrated PA task for the undergraduate version, with one additional PA task for the graduate version. The assessment will require candidates to
demonstrate instructional skills. This methods course will count towards 7 hours of the 51 total clinical hours that learners will gain from their SCED
methods courses.
D840 - Teaching English Language Arts in Secondary Schools - Teaching English Language Arts in Secondary Schools is designed to equip
candidates with the skills and strategies necessary to effectively teach English Language Arts (ELA) to middle and high school students. The course
begins with a focus on designing learning experiences that promote effective oral communication, ensuring students can express themselves clearly
and confidently. It then delves into applying knowledge of language, guiding candidates in teaching the intricacies of language use, reading
comprehension, and vocabulary acquisition. Next, the course emphasizes the implementation of instruction that assesses students' speaking and
listening skills through various formative assessments, fostering active engagement and identifying areas for reteaching. Finally, candidates will create
a comprehensive action plan for ELA instruction, reflecting on their instructional strategies and identifying opportunities for continuous improvement.
Throughout the course, candidates will learn to balance content rigor, scaffold learning, and employ evidence-based strategies to support diverse
learners in developing critical language skills.
D841 - Secondary English Language Arts Curriculum - Secondary English Language Arts Curriculum explores the integration of literary analysis,
language development, and curriculum design to prepare candidates for teaching in secondary ELA classrooms and for the Praxis 5039 English
Language Arts exam. This course guides candidates through a comprehensive study of global literature, rhetorical techniques, language strategies,
and assessment methodologies, thereby enabling them to effectively align their teaching practices with state content standards and student needs.
Emphasizing critical evaluation and application, the course equips educators with the tools to research, select, and adapt ELA curricular resources to
diverse educational settings. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 304
D842 - Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging Trends and Society - D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging Trends and Society
explores the intersection of ethical thinking and technological innovations. A foundational introduction to ethical frameworks is applied to emerging
trends in technology including artificial intelligence, social media, and other forms of digital media. This course examines the impact of technology on
our understanding of self as well as the individual’s role in interacting with others in a globalized society. Through careful analysis and application,
students gain the ability to recognize ethical actions within the context of current and newly evolving technological landscapes. Through the application
of ethical frameworks, students gain the ability to evaluate actions taken within the context of current and newly evolving technological landscapes.
This course has no prerequisites.
D843 - General Chemistry I - General Chemistry I introduces foundational principles of chemistry, starting at the atomic level and expanding to the
behavior of elements within the periodic table. This course explores how atoms bond to form molecules and proceeds into chemical reactions, acids
and bases, solutions, and nuclear reactions. Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of stability and change in chemical processes. This
course highlights the practical aspects of chemistry, providing insights into how chemical principles underpin everyday phenomena and contribute to
our understanding of environmental processes.
D844 - General Chemistry I Lab - General Chemistry I Lab focuses on developing foundational skills in scientific investigation in chemistry. It
emphasizes the application of the scientific method to answer chemistry questions through hypothesis-driven experimentation. Students will learn to
design, execute, and analyze chemistry experiments, ensuring adherence to rigorous scientific protocols and ethical standards. The course also
covers essential aspects of scientific communication, including writing clear and structured scientific reports and effectively presenting experimental
findings. Throughout the course, students will cultivate critical thinking skills necessary for interpreting data and drawing conclusions.
D845 - General Physics I - This General Physics course covers fundamental concepts, including Newton’s Laws, forces, motion, energy, waves,
electricity, and magnetism, with real-world applications and insights into relativity and quantum theory. Learners will study measurement, forces and
motion, Newton’s Laws, centrifugal and centripetal forces, friction, gravity, momentum, collisions, vectors, wave motion, energy, thermodynamics, and
electromagnetic waves. Skills developed include scientific literacy, physical science application, systems thinking, and scientific reasoning.
D846 - General Physics I Lab - In this lab that follows the General Physics course, learners will develop the ability to conduct scientific investigations to
answer questions using experimentation in the field of physics. The section emphasizes the application of the scientific method to solve problems,
analyze data from experiments, and draw conclusions. Students will also learn to accurately summarize their findings and perform tasks with attention
to detail. Throughout the lessons, students will engage in activities designed to enhance their scientific reasoning and written communication skills,
ensuring they can effectively explain their results. They will practice identifying interconnections within systems. The course provides a foundational
understanding of experimental techniques and data analysis, preparing learners to conduct independent investigations and apply their knowledge in
real-world contexts.
D847 - General Earth Science I - This comprehensive survey course provides a foundational understanding of Earth's position in the universe and its
dynamic systems. Students will explore Earth's placement within the solar system, including the effects of its orbit, origin, and celestial interactions on
tides and seasons. The course delves into Earth's subsystems—geosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and atmosphere—focusing on their interactions
and impacts on weather, climate, and geological processes like weathering, erosion, and soil formation. Additionally, the course examines natural
phenomena such as earthquakes and volcanoes, and the significant influence of human activities on Earth's systems, addressing topics such as
resource management, land use, pollution, and sustainability. Through interactive simulations, multimedia resources, and real-life applications,
students will engage in interdisciplinary thinking and develop a deep appreciation for the scientific methods, theories, and laws that underpin Earth
science.
D848 - General Earth Science I Lab - The Earth Science I Lab course equips students with skills to conduct scientific investigations in Earth science.
Students will apply the scientific method, design controlled experiments, and follow lab safety protocols. They will gain experience with data collection
methods, including field observations, experiments, and virtual simulations of phenomena like erosion. The course emphasizes analyzing weather,
climate, and seismic data using basic techniques. It also covers essential aspects of identifying and analyzing the components of a lab report by
answering questions related to a simulated lab report. Students will learn to interpret data, draw conclusions, and communicate findings effectively,
preparing them for advanced Earth science studies and research.
D849 - General Biology I - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological research
are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment. Key
concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment to
maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
D850 - General Biology I Lab - This course focuses on developing foundational skills in scientific investigation within the field of biology. It emphasizes
the application of the scientific method to answer biological questions through hypothesis-driven experimentation. Students will learn to design,
execute, and analyze biological experiments, ensuring adherence to rigorous scientific protocols and ethical standards. The course also covers
essential aspects of identifying and analyzing the components of a lab report by answering questions related to a simulated lab report. Throughout the
course, students will cultivate critical thinking skills necessary for interpreting data, drawing conclusions, and proposing further research directions in
biology.
D852 - Astronomy - Astronomy explores the fundamental principles of the universe, focusing on the lifecycle of stars, the structure of our solar system,
and the dynamics of the Sun-Earth-Moon system. In this course, students learn about the analysis of starlight spectra and brightness to determine the
composition, movement, and distance of stars. Kepler’s laws are examined to explain the motions of orbiting celestial bodies and the factors that
influence their paths. Students will also learn how the cyclical changes in Earth’s orbit and axial orientation affect climate over geological time scales.
Additionally, students will build on their geological knowledge by studying extraterrestrial objects, such as lunar rocks and meteorites, to gain insights
into Earth's formation and history.
D853 - Meteorology - Meteorology provides an in-depth exploration of Earth's atmospheric and hydrospheric systems, examining the complex
interactions that govern climate and weather patterns. Students will investigate the fundamental concepts of atmospheric circulation, weather systems,
and climate dynamics, linking these to the hydrosphere's critical role. The course progresses to a detailed analysis of the Earth's evolving climate,
focusing on both natural and anthropogenic factors that have shaped the current state of the atmosphere and hydrosphere. By integrating scientific
principles with practical applications, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of how climate systems operate and evolve, preparing them to
assess and address future environmental challenges.
D854 - Environmental Science - This course explores the essential concepts and processes related to Earth's natural resources, focusing on the
interactions between land, water, and air. Students will analyze how human activities impact these resources and examine the scientific, technological,
and policy-driven efforts to manage and remediate environmental issues. Through case studies and real-world examples, the course emphasizes
sustainable practices and the role of innovative solutions in addressing global challenges. By the end of the course, students will be equipped to
critically evaluate resource management strategies and contribute to environmental sustainability.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 305
D855 - Natural Hazards - Natural Hazards delves into the complex and dynamic processes that govern Earth's natural systems and the hazards they
produce. Students will explore how the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere interact to create natural events such as earthquakes,
volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, floods, and tsunamis. The course emphasizes the role of plate tectonics in generating lithospheric hazards, analyzing
how movements within the Earth's crust lead to earthquakes and volcanic activities. Additionally, students will learn about the formation of atmospheric
hazards, including how climate patterns and atmospheric circulation contribute to contribute to hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes. Students will
examine how human activities impact the frequency and intensity of natural hazards and how natural hazards influence human behavior. By the end of
the course, students will have a comprehensive understanding of the scientific principles underlying natural hazards and will be equipped to analyze
and address the challenges posed by these events in both natural and human-altered environments.
D856 - Environmental Management with Lab - Environmental Management with Lab is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking
initial licensure or endorsement in secondary science education. This course provides a comprehensive overview of the principles and practices
essential for understanding and managing the environment sustainably. This course focuses on sustainable use of energy, water, and other natural
resources, as well as pollution of air, water, and land. Through hands-on labs and real-world examples, candidates will gain practical experience in
environmental impact assessments and water and air quality monitoring. This course is assessed via a Performance Assessment.
D857 - Secondary Earth Science Curriculum - UG Secondary Earth Science Curriculum prepares students to develop and evaluate Earth Science
curricula for secondary education by examining the foundational principles of Earth's processes, materials, and their interactions within the broader
context of the hydrosphere, atmosphere, and the universe. The course delves into the relationships between the Earth, Sun, and Moon, the dynamics
of the Earth's internal and external systems, and the characteristics and life cycles of stars and planets. Learners will explore the structure and
behavior of Earth's components, as well as celestial phenomena, equipping them with the knowledge necessary to effectively teach these concepts in
secondary education settings. This course lays the groundwork for understanding and conveying the complexities of Earth and space science,
preparing learners for impactful instruction in the classroom. Through practical examples and interactive activities, students will enhance their ability to
design effective curricula that foster student engagement and understanding in Earth Science.
D858 - Secondary Earth Science Curriculum - MAT Secondary Earth Science Curriculum prepares students to develop and evaluate Earth Science
curricula for secondary education by exploring the core principles of Earth's processes, materials, and the relationships between the Earth, Sun, and
Moon, as well as the broader context of stars, planets, and the universe. Learners will delve into the hydrosphere and atmosphere, examining their
dynamics and the intricate interactions that drive Earth's systems. The course also emphasizes the evaluation and alignment of Earth Science
curriculum resources with secondary standards and individual student needs. Learners will gain the skills to critically assess and adapt instructional
materials, ensuring they meet diverse learning styles and needs in secondary Earth Science classrooms. Through practical examples and interactive
activities, this course equips learners with the knowledge and tools to effectively design, evaluate, and implement a comprehensive Earth Science
curriculum.
D859 - General Geology - General Geology offers a comprehensive exploration of Earth's dynamic systems, emphasizing the interaction of geological
processes that shape our planet. Students will engage in a rigorous study of Earth's materials, surface processes, and the forces driving tectonic
movements, with an emphasis on both local and global geological phenomena. Through interactive activities, including simulations, and mapping tools,
learners will connect historical geological evidence to the evolution of the Earth and its life forms. The course is designed for educators aiming to
enhance their pedagogical approaches to teaching geology. No prior geological knowledge is required, making this course accessible and essential for
anyone interested in understanding the Earth's past, present, and future.
D860 - General Physics II with Lab - General Physics II with Lab builds on the foundational concepts covered in General Physics I, guiding students
through introductory topics in heat and thermodynamics, geometric optics, and the interactions and transformations of energy within atomic and
subatomic systems. Students will explore the distinction between heat and temperature, methods of heat transfer, specific heat capacity, the laws of
thermodynamics, kinetic theory of gases, and the principles of heat engines and efficiency. The course delves into electromagnetic waves, Snell’s law,
total internal reflection, thin film interference, ray tracing for lenses and mirrors, dispersion, polarization, diffraction, and the functioning of optical
instruments. Finally, students will analyze Interaction and Transformations of Energy, explore atomic models and structures, atomic spectral absorption
and emission, radioactivity and radioactive decay, nuclear processes like fusion and fission, and mass-energy relationships. Throughout the course,
students will develop scientific literacy and the ability to apply scientific principles, enhancing their understanding of physical science concepts and
their applications.
D861 - Electricity and Magnetism - Electricity and Magnetism is a comprehensive exploration of the fundamental principles of electricity and
magnetism. This course is designed to help all students be successful in learning the core concepts of electricity and magnetism, and how they can be
applied to real world technologies like electronics, motors, and infrastructure. Through a combination of theoretical instruction and experiments,
students will build a robust foundation in electricity and magnetism, preparing them for a career as a physics teacher. This course emphasizes critical
thinking, problem-solving, and the practical application of scientific principles, equipping students with the knowledge and skills necessary for success
in the classroom.
D862 - Astrophysics with Lab - Explore the vast and fascinating realm of astrophysics with a hands-on approach to learning about celestial objects, the
formation of the universe, and the theories that explain their behavior. Through interactive virtual labs and engaging multimedia resources, you will
delve into the properties of stars, planets, galaxies, black holes, and the fundamental forces that govern their motion. Analyze cutting-edge theories of
general relativity, dark matter, and dark energy while developing critical analytical skills to interpret astronomical data. This course offers a
comprehensive understanding of the universe and prepares you to apply astrophysical concepts in real-world contexts.
D863 - Waves, Acoustics, and Sound - Waves, Acoustics, and Sound provides a comprehensive exploration of fundamental wave properties and their
interactions with various media. Designed for learners preparing for roles in science education, it delves into the core concepts of wave behavior,
including wave characteristics, factors affecting wave propagation, and the effects of interference. Through detailed lessons on wave properties,
interactions, and changes in wave behavior, learners will gain the skills needed to analyze and predict wave phenomena. The course emphasizes
practical applications, employing interactive simulations and real-world examples to enhance understanding and prepare learners for effective teaching
and application of wave concepts in educational settings.
D864 - Secondary Physics Curriculum - Secondary Physics Curriculum. This course offers a comprehensive review for high school physics teachers
preparing for the Praxis exam. Explore major scientific discoveries, key engineering innovations, and their societal impacts. Understand ethical issues
in scientific research and the principles of effective science communication. Delve into different forms of energy, laws of thermodynamics, and the role
of energy and matter in the universe. Study Coulomb's Law, electric circuits, and electromagnetism. Learn how to integrate wave properties, sound
waves, and the electromagnetic spectrum into your teaching practice. As this course is focused on Praxis prep, content is conceptual and algebra-
based.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 306
D865 - Secondary Physics Curriculum - MAT Secondary Physics Curriculum This course offers a comprehensive review for high school physics
teachers preparing for the Praxis exam. Explore major scientific discoveries, key engineering innovations, and their societal impacts. Understand
ethical issues in scientific research and the principles of effective science communication. Delve into different forms of energy, laws of
thermodynamics, and the role of energy and matter in the universe. Study Coulomb's Law, electric circuits, and electromagnetism. Learn how to
integrate wave properties, sound waves, and the electromagnetic spectrum into your teaching practice. As this course is focused on Praxis prep,
content is conceptual and algebra-based.
D866 - General Chemistry II with Lab - Chemistry II with Lab course is designed to equip students with a comprehensive understanding of advanced
chemical principles and their real-world applications. Covering a wide range of topics from energy transfer during physical and chemical processes to
the recognition and naming of compounds, the course emphasizes critical thinking and practical skills. Students will delve into quantitative
relationships in chemical reactions, gaining proficiency in stoichiometry, solution concentration, and reaction predictions. Through scientific inquiry,
students will learn to design experiments, collect and analyze data, and apply their knowledge to solve environmental and industrial problems. The
course also includes extensive practice in communicating scientific findings effectively, both in written reports and oral presentations. With a blend of
theoretical knowledge and hands-on laboratory experience, this course prepares students for success in advanced studies and professional
applications of chemistry.
D867 - Organic Chemistry - This Organic Chemistry course prepares teacher candidates to understand and apply foundational concepts in carbon-
based chemistry. You will learn to describe molecular structures using proper nomenclature, analyze chemical processes, and apply instrumental
methods of analysis to determine molecular structures. The course emphasizes practical skills, including the use of modeling kits and spectroscopic
techniques to synthesize and analyze organic compounds. By the end of this course, you will be equipped to teach these concepts effectively to your
students.
D868 - Analytical Chemistry with Lab - In "Analytical Chemistry with Lab," students will deepen their understanding of chemistry through the scientific
method, data analysis, and data visualization. This course aligns with Utah Competency Areas C2.1.A and C2.1.B, focusing on questioning, methods,
argumentation, models, data, and analysis. Students will gain hands-on experience with classical, optical, chromatographic, mass spectrometric, and
electrochemical techniques. Prerequisites include a solid foundation in mathematics and prior chemistry courses. Students will critically evaluate
experiments, learning to design effective methods and present their data clearly. This course prepares students to gather, process, and communicate
chemical data, emphasizing its application in teaching and real-world scenarios. This course helps prepare students in chemistry and related fields.
D869 - Biochemistry I - This course delves into the critical role of macromolecules and chemical reactions in living organisms, with a focus on
molecular interactions, metabolic pathways, and the regulatory mechanisms that underpin biological processes. The student will start by analyzing
macromolecules in organisms and study information on the structure, function, and interactions of key biological macromolecules including
carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids, emphasizing their roles in cellular functions and intercellular interactions. The course then builds to
analyzing macromolecules in organisms by building on this foundation, examining the interactions between these macromolecules and the forces
driving these interactions, such as intermolecular forces and solubility principles. Finally, the student will explore chemical reactions in organisms
through enzyme function and inhibition, metabolic pathways, like glycolysis and the citric acid cycle, and the electron transport chain, as well as the
regulation of these pathways and the impact of metabolic disorders. Throughout the course, students will engage in activities and analyses that
deepen their understanding of these biochemical processes and their relevance to the functioning of living organisms.
D870 - Physical Chemistry I - Physical Chemistry I provides an exploration of the intersection of physics and chemistry to understand the fundamental
principles that govern chemical reactions and matter. This course covers key topics such as atomic and molecular structure, thermodynamics, and
kinetics, emphasizing real-world applications and practical problem-solving. Through a blend of virtual labs and interactive activities, learners will
develop a deep understanding of energy changes, reaction mechanisms, and the behavior of matter in various states. This course emphasizes
engagement with complex concepts, enhancement of analytical skills, and application of theoretical knowledge to practical scenarios.
D871 - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum synthesizes the core content of the Secondary Chemistry Program,
preparing candidates to apply education theory and teaching approaches to the chemistry content areas. This course aligns with the areas covered by
the Chemistry Praxis exam, ensuring candidates demonstrate both a deep understanding of the subject matter and the ability to effectively deliver
content in a secondary classroom setting. Topics include atomic structure, chemical bonding, energy relationships, chemical reactions, solutions, and
the role of science and engineering in society. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D872 - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum synthesizes the core content of the Secondary Chemistry Program,
preparing candidates to apply education theory and teaching approaches to the chemistry content areas. This course aligns with the areas covered by
the Chemistry Praxis exam, ensuring candidates demonstrate both a deep understanding of the subject matter and the ability to effectively deliver
content in a secondary classroom setting. Through evidence-based methods of learning science, candidates will evaluate learning experiences and
resources that effectively convey chemistry concepts to secondary students. Topics include atomic structure, chemical bonding, energy relationships,
chemical reactions, solutions, and the role of science and engineering in society. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D873 - Laboratory Safety - The course "Laboratory Safety" aims at equipping learners with essential safety knowledge and skills for various learning
environments, including laboratories, classrooms, and field settings. Learners in this course will deeply understand safety protocols, legal
responsibilities, and effective teaching strategies for safety in educational settings.
D874 - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering focuses on developing a comprehensive
understanding of science and engineering pedagogical knowledge. This course is the first of three science teaching methods courses and provides a
robust foundation in integrating disciplinary core ideas, crosscutting concepts, and science and engineering practices in phenomena-based curriculum
and instruction. Candidates will delve into planning learning experiences, designing instructional strategies, and utilizing phenomena-based teaching to
promote engagement and understanding. Reflective practices, such as evaluating observed teaching, analyzing personal teaching methods, and
reviewing course content, are emphasized to foster continuous improvement. The course will be assessed via an integrated performance assessment
task, requiring candidates to demonstrate their instructional skills.
D875 - Secondary Science Teaching Methods - This course focuses on equipping secondary science educators with the essential knowledge and
skills to effectively teach science through a three-dimensional approach, integrating science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and
disciplinary core ideas. Participants will explore general considerations for science instruction, including inquiry-based learning, hands-on activities,
and assessment strategies. By building on foundational knowledge in Three-Dimensional Science and Engineering, educators will enhance their ability
to engage students in meaningful and authentic scientific learning experiences. This methods course will count towards 7 hours of the 51 total clinical
hours that learners will gain from their SCED methods courses.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 307
D876 - Cell Biology - Cell Biology examines the fundamental principles and techniques that underpin the structure, function, and growth of cells,
encompassing cellular components, the cell cycle, and genetic information flow. The course emphasizes the importance of cellular processes and
techniques such as microscopy, cell culture, genetic engineering, and bioinformatics, highlighting their relevance in understanding cellular biology's
role in health and disease. This course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of how cells maintain homeostasis,
metabolize, and perform specialized functions.
D877 - General Biology II - This General Biology II course is designed to prepare learners for teaching biology at the high school level by providing an
in-depth understanding of cellular structures, the processes of mitosis and meiosis, and the mechanisms of communication and information processing
within organisms. Students will explore the complexities of cell differentiation, the roles of different brain regions, and how organisms respond to
environmental stimuli through interactive activities and simulations. The course emphasizes the integration of foundational concepts with real-world
applications, helping future educators build a comprehensive knowledge base. By the end of the course, students will be well-equipped to teach key
biological processes and understand their significance in the growth, development, and survival of living organisms.
D878 - General Ecology - General Ecology offers an in-depth exploration of how ecosystems function and interact. Candidates will study both biotic
and abiotic factors that play crucial roles in sustaining ecological balance. Key topics include the flow of energy through food chains and webs, nutrient
cycling, and the dynamics of populations—covering growth models, carrying capacity, and factors influencing population size and structure. The course
examines species interactions such as competition, predation, and symbiosis, and explores community structure and biodiversity. Candidates will learn
about primary and secondary succession and how these processes shape ecosystems over time. Additionally, the course addresses conservation
principles and practices, with a focus on analyzing human impacts on ecosystems and exploring strategies for sustainability. Through this course,
candidates will gain a comprehensive understanding of the intricate web of life that sustains our planet.
D879 - Genetics - Genetics is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking licensure or endorsement in secondary or middle grade
science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the function of molecular genetics. Topics include Mendelian and non-
Mendelian inheritance, gene regulation, and variation at the individual level. The course examines modern technologies and applications of genetics.
D880 - Evolutionary Biology - Evolutionary Biology provides a comprehensive exploration of key concepts and mechanisms of evolution. Students will
learn about the evidence supporting evolution, including fossils and molecular data, the mechanisms driving evolutionary change like natural selection
and genetic drift, and the historical and contemporary factors influencing the diversity of life. The course also addresses the importance of biodiversity
conservation and equips educators with strategies to effectively teach evolutionary concepts in the classroom, emphasizing evidence-based
applications and critical thinking.
D881 - Advanced Zoology and Botany with Lab - Advanced Zoology & Botany with Lab is an in-depth exploration of advanced topics in zoology and
botany, including the study of animal and plant physiology, ecology, evolution, and taxonomy. This course will engage students in virtual, hands-on
laboratory exercises to develop practical skills in virtual or hands-on lab activities, data collection, and analysis. This course builds on concepts from
General Biology I and II, and Evolutionary Biology and contains instructional teaching strategies for classroom delivery.
D882 - Secondary Biology Curriculum - The Secondary Biology course offers a comprehensive understanding of biological principles and processes,
starting from the fundamental cellular structures and functions to the complexities of ecosystem dynamics. Students will delve into key topics such as
genetics, evolution, and ecological interactions, gaining insights into the diversity of life and the interconnectedness of biological systems. The course
emphasizes critical thinking and problem-solving skills, enabling learners to analyze biological phenomena and apply their knowledge to real-world
challenges. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, students will engage in hands-on activities, scenarios, and case
studies to deepen their understanding. Additionally, the course highlights the impact of environmental changes on ecosystems, fostering an
appreciation for conservation and sustainability. By the end of the course, learners will be well-prepared to address various biological challenges and
pursue further studies or careers in the field of biology education.
D883 - Secondary Biology Curriculum - The Secondary Biology course offers a comprehensive understanding of biological principles and processes,
starting from the fundamental cellular structures and functions to the complexities of ecosystem dynamics. Students will delve into key topics such as
genetics, evolution, and ecological interactions, gaining insights into the diversity of life and the interconnectedness of biological systems. The course
emphasizes critical thinking and problem-solving skills, enabling learners to analyze biological phenomena and apply their knowledge to real-world
challenges. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, students will engage in hands-on activities, scenarios, and case
studies to deepen their understanding. Additionally, the course highlights the impact of environmental changes on ecosystems, fostering an
appreciation for conservation and sustainability. By the end of the course, learners will be well-prepared to address various biological challenges and
pursue further studies or careers in the field of biology education.
D884 - Laboratory Safety - The course "Laboratory Safety" aims at equipping learners with essential safety knowledge and skills for various learning
environments, including laboratories, classrooms, and field settings. Learners in this course will deeply understand safety protocols, legal
responsibilities, and effective teaching strategies for safety in educational settings.
D885 - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering focuses on developing a comprehensive
understanding of science and engineering pedagogical knowledge. This course is the first of three science teaching methods courses and provides a
robust foundation in integrating disciplinary core ideas, crosscutting concepts, and science and engineering practices in phenomena-based curriculum
and instruction. Candidates will delve into planning learning experiences, designing instructional strategies, and utilizing phenomena-based teaching to
promote engagement and understanding. Reflective practices, such as evaluating observed teaching, analyzing personal teaching methods, and
reviewing course content, are emphasized to foster continuous improvement. The course will be assessed via an integrated performance assessment
task, requiring candidates to demonstrate their instructional skills.
D886 - Secondary Science Teaching Methods - This course focuses on equipping secondary science educators with the essential knowledge and
skills to effectively teach science through a three-dimensional approach, integrating science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and
disciplinary core ideas. Participants will explore general considerations for science instruction, including inquiry-based learning, hands-on activities,
and assessment strategies. By building on foundational knowledge in Three-Dimensional Science and Engineering, educators will enhance their ability
to engage students in meaningful and authentic scientific learning experiences. This methods course will count towards 7 hours of the 51 total clinical
hours that learners will gain from their SCED methods courses.
D887 - Molecular Biology - Molecular Biology is designed to deepen the understanding of the intricate processes that govern life at the molecular level.
This course explores the structure and function of key molecules involved in DNA replication, transcription, translation, and gene regulation. It delves
into the mechanisms of cellular transport, differentiation, and regulation, examining how cells maintain their internal environment and respond to
external signals. The biochemical pathways essential for metabolism and energy flow, including glycolysis, the citric acid cycle, and oxidative
phosphorylation, are thoroughly covered. This course equips educators with the knowledge and skills to effectively teach molecular biology concepts in
the classroom, emphasizing evidence-based applications and critical thinking.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 308
D888 - Probability and Statistics - Probability and Statistics offers candidates a comprehensive introduction to the fundamental principles of probability
theory and statistical analysis, specifically designed for educators and aspiring statisticians. Beginning with the basics, students will explore essential
concepts such as probability rules, conditional probability, and counting techniques, learning how to apply these in real-world contexts and effectively
communicate them to K-12 students. Students will then learn sampling methods and estimation techniques, equipping them with the knowledge to
gather, analyze, and interpret representative data for statistical analysis. Finally, students will focus on hypothesis testing and statistical inference,
where they will learn to conduct and interpret various tests, including confidence intervals, using statistical software. Through a blend of interactive
simulations, scenario-based challenges, and reflective activities, this course prepares students to apply these statistical tools in educational settings
and beyond, fostering data-driven decision-making and effective teaching practices.
D889 - Trigonometry - Trigonometry delves into the core concepts and applications of trigonometric functions and identities, critical for advanced
mathematics and practical problem-solving. The course starts with foundational topics, including the definition and calculation of sine, cosine, and
tangent ratios, and progresses to solving right triangles and applying trigonometric functions to model real-world periodic phenomena. Students will
explore the unit circle, derive fundamental identities, and solve complex trigonometric equations, including applications of vectors, parametric, and
polar forms. Emphasizing both theoretical understanding and practical application, this course equips students with the skills necessary for higher-level
mathematics courses and various professional fields. No prerequisites are required for this course.
D890 - Calculus I - Calculus I offers a foundational exploration of the essential concepts and applications of calculus, crucial for higher-level
mathematics and various scientific fields. This course begins with an overview of calculating limits and continuity of functions, setting the stage for the
study of derivatives. Then, students will explore applications of derivatives, including applications to objects in motion, optimization, and related rates.
Finally, the course focuses on both definite and indefinite integrals, leading to the mastery of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. This course
prepares students for advanced mathematical studies and provides the groundwork for advanced calculus topics addressed in Calculus II and
Multivariable Calculus.
D891 - Calculus II - Calculus II builds upon foundational calculus concepts to deepen learners' understanding of integration techniques, sequences,
series, and differential equations. The course begins with advanced integration methods, including improper integrals and numerical approximation
techniques, crucial for solving complex real-world problems in fields such as physics and engineering. Students will explore sequences and series,
applying convergence tests and power series expansions to analyze and represent functions accurately. Additionally, the course covers differential
equations, parametric equations, and polar coordinates, providing essential tools for modeling dynamic systems and solving higher-level mathematical
problems. Throughout the course, practical applications in various scientific and engineering disciplines are emphasized, ensuring students develop
strong analytical and problem-solving skills. This course prepares learners for advanced studies in mathematics and related fields and prepares
students for the more complex applications found in Multivariable Calculus.
D892 - Multivariable Calculus - Multivariable Calculus provides an advanced exploration of calculus in multiple dimensions. The course begins with
vector operations in both two and three dimensions, with emphasis on mastering computations and interpretations of magnitudes, directions, and
vector products. Then, it presents partial differentiation and the integration of functions of multiple variables. Finally, the course teaches learners how
to analyze applications of vector fields using line, surface, and volume integrals. This course integrates and extends previous calculus concepts,
providing students with the opportunity to gain a deep understanding of key mathematical theorems while preparing students for specialized courses
and professional applications. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
D893 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra delves into the study of linear systems, matrices, and vector spaces, forming a critical foundation for advanced
mathematics. Students will begin by mastering matrix operations, including solving linear systems and finding determinants and inverses. As they
progress, they will explore vector spaces, linear transformations, and inner product spaces, gaining the skills to work with higher-dimensional systems.
The course also covers advanced topics such as eigenvalues, eigenvectors, diagonalization, and sophisticated techniques like the least squares
method, linear programming, and singular value decomposition. This course is essential for those preparing for Multivariable Calculus and other
advanced mathematical studies.
D894 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus builds on prior calculus concepts to provide a rigorous and comprehensive exploration of advanced
topics in calculus and analysis. The course begins with an introduction to writing proofs, using definitions and theorems, to analyze the real number
system. The course progresses to using definitions and theorems to analyze the properties of functions, focusing on continuity, differentiability,
integrability, and convergence. Then, it examines the rigorous treatment of advanced vector calculus operations, including the differentiation and
integration of vector functions, and applies these skills to solve real-world problems in physics and engineering. Finally, students will synthesize and
apply advanced integration and topological techniques to solve complex problems. This course solidifies the mathematical foundation needed for
specialized and research-focused applications in mathematics and related fields.
D895 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching is a comprehensive course designed to
equip future educators with the expertise to teach secondary-level geometry. This course delves into core geometric concepts, including geometric
reasoning, transformations, congruence, similarity, and coordinate geometry, while emphasizing the development of critical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Students will engage in dynamic instructional strategies and hands-on learning experiences, using tools like GeoGebra and Desmos to
create interactive lessons that address common misconceptions and support diverse learners. By the end of the course, students will have the
confidence and skills to design, implement, and refine geometry lessons aligned with educational standards and tailored to the needs of a diverse
student population, preparing them to inspire and engage the next generation of mathematicians. This methods course will count towards 5 hours of
the 50 total clinical hours that learners will gain from their SCED methods courses.
D896 - Differential Equations - Differential Equations examines the methods and theory of ordinary differential equations (ODEs), focusing on the
classification and solution of initial- and boundary-value problems. The course advances to the analysis and solution of linear and nonlinear differential
equations, including systems of equations and higher-order differential equations with both constant and variable coefficients. Emphasis is placed on
real-world applications and stability analysis. Students will explore advanced techniques such as matrix exponential, fundamental solution matrices,
phase-space analysis, Laplace transforms, and an introduction to partial differential equations (PDEs). This course builds on matrix and vector
concepts and prepares students for more advanced mathematics courses.
D897 - Advanced Probability and Statistics - Advanced Probability and Statistics provides students with advanced knowledge and skills in probability
theory and statistical analysis. Students will learn to conduct an analysis of variance (ANOVA), regression analysis, and correlation analysis.
Additionally, they will learn to apply R programming language, generate functions, and use modes of stochastic convergence. The course will focus on
applying these concepts to real-world scenarios, decision-making processes, and predictive modeling.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 309
D898 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching offers an in-depth exploration of advanced
algebraic concepts and instructional methodologies tailored for secondary education. The course emphasizes task-based learning, enabling
participants to engage deeply with algebra as an extension of number theory, operations, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore key algebraic
ideas, including equivalence, patterns of change through covariation, and the integration of multiple representations—such as tables, graphs,
equations, and geometric models. The course also examines the historical evolution of algebra and incorporates diverse cultural perspectives. Core
topics include variables, functions (including exponential, logarithmic, polynomial, rational, and quadratic functions), and their applications. This course
is designed to enhance educators' ability to teach complex algebraic concepts effectively and adapt instructional strategies to meet diverse student
needs.
D899 - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching provides a comprehensive exploration of
advanced concepts and methodologies in teaching statistics and probability. The course delves into key topics such as summarizing and representing
data, study design, sampling, testing claims, drawing conclusions, and probability. Emphasizing a deep understanding of conceptual foundations,
including their historical development and perspectives from diverse cultures, the course addresses common misconceptions and students' ways of
thinking. The appropriate use of instructional practices is also highlighted. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D900 - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics is an in-depth exploration of secondary
mathematics content and pedagogy, distinguishing between subject mastery and effective teaching practices. This course will prepare students to
teach and reflect on secondary mathematics lessons that emphasize the use of effective teaching practices, including differentiation, questioning
techniques, and curriculum development. The course also covers strategies for presenting mathematical material at the appropriate level, utilizing
humanizing approaches, co-teaching, Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS), accommodations, and inclusion. This course does not have any
required prerequisites.
D901 - Secondary Mathematics Curriculum - This Secondary Mathematics course is designed to prepare future secondary math educators by focusing
on the application of fundamental math concepts, the development of effective teaching strategies, and the alignment of instruction with state content
standards. This course teaches key areas including application of number systems, algebraic structures, calculus, geometric reasoning, and probability
and statistics in the secondary setting. Additionally, learners will learn to design and evaluate mathematical problems, integrate technology, and
differentiate instruction to meet all students’ needs. Learners will also explore how to research and evaluate curricular resources to ensure they align
with educational goals and standards. By the end of the course, participants will be equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to deliver high-
quality math instruction in secondary education.
D902 - Secondary Mathematics Curriculum - This Secondary Mathematics course is designed to prepare future secondary math educators by focusing
on the application of fundamental math concepts, the development of effective teaching strategies, and the alignment of instruction with state content
standards. This course teaches key areas including application of number systems, algebraic structures, calculus, geometric reasoning, and probability
and statistics in the secondary setting. Additionally, learners will learn to design and evaluate mathematical problems, integrate technology, and
differentiate instruction to meet all students’ needs. Learners will also explore how to research and evaluate curricular resources to ensure they align
with educational goals and standards. By the end of the course, participants will be equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to deliver high-
quality math instruction in secondary education.
D903 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching is a comprehensive course designed to
equip future educators with the expertise to teach secondary-level geometry. This course delves into core geometric concepts, including geometric
reasoning, transformations, congruence, similarity, and coordinate geometry, while emphasizing the development of critical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Students will engage in dynamic instructional strategies and hands-on learning experiences, using tools like GeoGebra and Desmos to
create interactive lessons that address common misconceptions and support diverse learners. By the end of the course, students will have the
confidence and skills to design, implement, and refine geometry lessons aligned with educational standards and tailored to the needs of a diverse
student population, preparing them to inspire and engage the next generation of mathematicians.
D904 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching offers an in-depth exploration of advanced
algebraic concepts and instructional methodologies tailored for secondary education. The course emphasizes task-based learning, enabling
participants to engage deeply with algebra as an extension of number theory, operations, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore key algebraic
ideas, including equivalence, patterns of change through covariation, and the integration of multiple representations—such as tables, graphs,
equations, and geometric models. The course also examines the historical evolution of algebra and incorporates diverse cultural perspectives. Core
topics include variables, functions (including exponential, logarithmic, polynomial, rational, and quadratic functions), and their applications. This course
is designed to enhance educators' ability to teach complex algebraic concepts effectively and adapt instructional strategies to meet diverse student
needs.
D905 - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching provides a comprehensive exploration of
advanced concepts and methodologies in teaching statistics and probability. The course delves into key topics such as summarizing and representing
data, study design, sampling, testing claims, drawing conclusions, and probability. Emphasizing a deep understanding of conceptual foundations,
including their historical development and perspectives from diverse cultures, the course addresses common misconceptions and students' ways of
thinking. The appropriate use of instructional practices is also highlighted. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D906 - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics is an in-depth exploration of secondary
mathematics content and pedagogy, distinguishing between subject mastery and effective teaching practices. This course will prepare students to
teach and reflect on secondary mathematics lessons that emphasize the use of effective teaching practices, including differentiation, questioning
techniques, and curriculum development. The course also covers strategies for presenting mathematical material at the appropriate level, utilizing
humanizing approaches, co-teaching, Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS), accommodations, and inclusion. This course does not have any
required prerequisites.
DPT2 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves. This course will focus on such topics as electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism,
electromagnetic induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
E224 - Global and Population Health - Global and Population Health prepares students for the role of the nurse in preserving and promoting health
among diverse populations. Additionally, basic principles of epidemiology, social determinants of health (SDOH), and resource allocation through
value-based care are outlined. The course introduces planning, organization, and delivery of services for diverse populations in community settings,
including illness prevention, disaster preparedness, and environmental health. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites
for this course. This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 310
E225 - Emerging Professional Practice - Emerging Professional Practice presents a variety of professional nursing specialty areas. Students explore
various practice specialties, including palliative care, genetics and genomics, and others. The course provides pathways to specialized nursing
practice. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
ELO1 - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL integrates aspects of pedagogy, assessment, and professionalism in
English Language Learning (ELL). A student develops and assesses aspects of language curriculum development including second language
instruction, methods of second language assessment, and legal policy issues.
FEA1 - Field Experience for ELL - Field Experience for ELL is the field experience component of the English Language Learning program. In this
experience, students are required to complete a minimum of 15 hours of video observations for both elementary and secondary levels. Additionally, a
supervised teaching experience that is face-to-face with English language learners (ELL) according to the minimum time requirements of the student's
state is required. The purpose of this course is to assess the ability of students, including their engagement in field experience activities, ability to
reflect on and then plan standards-based instruction in ELL, and their ability to locate and effectively use resources for teaching ELL to meet the needs
of their individual learners.
LPA1 - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition focuses on describing and understanding
language and the development of language. It includes the study of acquisition theory, error correction strategies, and applied phonology.
LZT2 - Power, Influence and Leadership - Power, Influence, and Leadership focuses on the development of the critical leadership and soft skills
necessary for success in information technology leadership and management. The course focuses specifically on skills such as cultivating effective
leadership communication, building personal influence, enhancing emotional intelligence (soft skills), generating ideas and encouraging idea
generation in others, conflict resolution, and positioning oneself as an influential change agent within different organizational cultures. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
MBT2 - Technological Globalization - Technological Globalization explores information and communication technologies used to meet business needs
in global markets. IT executives must analyze their organization’s technological needs, develop internationally-capable strategic plans, and mitigate the
operational challenges of each of the countries in which the organization does business. This course provides students with the practical knowledge
and understanding of how to plan, evaluate, and successfully integrate effective and efficient technical communication solutions in the global business
market. This course has no prerequisites.
MFT2 - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense: Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Defense focuses on a formal
presentation. The student will present an overview of their teacher work sample (TWS) portfolio discussing the challenges they faced and how they
determined whether their goals were accomplished. They will explain the process they went through to develop the TWS portfolio and reflect on the
methodologies and outcomes of the strategies discussed in the TWS portfolio. Additionally, they will discuss the strengths and weaknesses of those
strategies and how they can apply what they learned from the TWS portfolio in their professional work environment.
MGT2 - IT Project Management - IT Project Management provides an overview of the Project Management Institute’s project management
methodology. Topics cover various process groups and knowledge areas and application of knowledge in case studies for planning a project that has
not started yet and monitoring/controlling a project that is already underway.
MMT2 - IT Strategic Solutions - IT Strategic Solutions guides students in identifying strategic opportunities and emerging technologies through
research and deciding on a system to support a growing company. Topics will include technology strategy; gap analysis; researching new technology;
strengths, opportunities, weaknesses, and threats; ethics; risk mitigation; data security, communication plans; and globalization.
NMA1 - Professional Role of the ELL Teacher - The Professional Role of the ELL Teacher focuses on issues of professionalism for the English
Language Learning teacher and leader. This includes program development, ethics, engagement in professional organizations, serving as a resource,
and ELL advocacy.
NNA1 - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction focuses on a variety of philosophies and grade
levels of English Language Learner (ELL) instruction. It includes the study of ELL listening and speaking, ELL reading and writing, specially designed
academic instruction in English (SDAIE), and specific issues for various grade level instruction.
OOT2 - Mathematics History and Technology - In Math History and Teaching, students will learn about a variety of technological tools for doing
mathematics and develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. Mathematics is a very human subject that comes from
the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change as well as the micro-level actions of individuals with personal, professional, and philosophical
motivations. This course will focus on the historical development of mathematics, including contributions of significant figures and diverse cultures.
Students will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and historical information to create an enriching student-centered mathematical learning
environment.
OPT2 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help students develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
become a prospective and practicing educator. This course will help students use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the learning
of mathematics. It focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and instructional planning, with methods based on research
and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an effective
secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
PFIT - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement is designed to help the learner complete
the culminating Undergraduate Business Portfolio assessment; it focuses on developing a business portfolio containing a strengths essay, a career
report, a reflection essay, a resume, and exhibits that support one’s strengths in the work place.
QDT2 - Abstract Algebra - Abstract Algebra is the axiomatic and rigorous study of the underlying structure of algebra and arithmetic. It covers the
knowledge and skills necessary to understand, apply, and prove theorems about numbers, groups, rings, and fields. Topics include the well-ordering
principle, equivalence classes, the division algorithm, Euclid's algorithm, prime factorization, greatest common divisor, least common multiple,
congruence, the Chinese remainder theorem, modular arithmetic, rings, integral domains, fields, groups, roots of unity, and homomorphisms. Linear
Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
QFT1 - Business - IT Management Capstone Project - The Business - IT Management Capstone Project requires students to demonstrate the
integration and synthesis of competencies in all domains required for the degree in Information Technology Management. The student produces a
business plan for a start-up company that is selected and approved by the student and mentor.
QGT1 - Business Management Capstone Written Project - For the Business Management Capstone Written Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that plans to sell a product or service in a local market, national
market, or on the Internet. The business plan includes a market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to
the chosen company.
© Western Governors University May 22, 2025 311
QHT1 - Business Management Tasks - Business Management Tasks addresses important concepts needed to effectively manage a business. Topics
include understanding the cost-quality relationship, using various types of graphical charts in operations management, managing innovation, and
developing strategies for working with individuals and groups.
QJT2 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use
differential calculus of one variable and appropriate technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains
and ranges; limits, continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and
sum rules applied to polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Candidates should have completed a course in
Pre-Calculus before engaging in this course.
QTT2 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of operations;
ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets of real
numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, and trees and networks. There are no prerequisites for this course.
RKT2 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use appropriate technology to model
and solve real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector
representation Ax=b, row reduction, linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection), matrix operations,
matrix inverses and invertible matrix characterizations, computing determinants, relating determinants to area and volume, and axiomatic and intuitive
definitions of vector spaces and subspaces and how to prove theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus II are prerequisites for this course.
RNT2 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and
electricity and magnetism and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
RXT2 - Precalculus and Calculus - Precalculus and Calculus provides instruction in precalculus and calculus and applies them to examples found in
both mathematics and science. Topics in precalculus include principles of trigonometry, mathematical modeling, and logarithmic, exponential,
polynomial, and rational functions. Topics in calculus include conceptual knowledge of limit, continuity, differentiability, and integration.
SLO1 - Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar - Theories of Second Language Learning Acquisition and Grammar covers content
material in applied linguistics, including morphology, syntax, semantics, and grammar. Students will explore the role of dialect in the classroom, the
connections between language and culture, and the theories of first and second language acquisition.
TOC2 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data, including representations, constructions, and interpretation of graphical displays (e.g., box
plots, histograms, cumulative frequency plots, scatter plots). Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. College Algebra is a prerequisite to this
course.
TQC2 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data and includes statistical variability and its sources and the role of randomness in statistical inference. Topics
include discrete and continuous random variables; expected values; the Central Limit Theorem; the identification of unusual samples; population
parameters; point estimates; confidence intervals; influences on accuracy and precision; hypothesis testing; and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion,
one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation). Calculus II and Probability and Statistics I are
prerequisites for this course.
VZT1 - Marketing Applications - Marketing Applications allows students to apply their knowledge of core marketing principles by creating a
comprehensive marketing plan. The plan will apply knowledge of the marketing planning process, market analysis, and the marketing mix (product,
place, promotion, and price).