Institutional Catalog
Western Governors University
2019 University Catalog
Volume MMXIX, No. 4
April 2019
Undergraduate and Graduate Programs
Teachers College
College of Business
College of Information Technology
College of Health Professions
The electronic catalog—the WGU public website—is available at any time by accessing the following URL:
www.wgu.edu
The print version of this catalog for students and prospective students may be requested by contacting Darin Hobbs,
Registrar at registrar@wgu.edu.
Disclaimer: All information in this catalog is provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute a legal
contract between Western Governors University and any person or entity unless otherwise specified. Information in this
catalog is subject to change without prior notice. Although every reasonable effort is made to present current and
accurate information, Western Governors University makes no guarantees of any kind.
Western Governors University
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
Toll Free: 866.225.5948
Local Phone: 801.274.3280
Fax: 801.274.3305
info@wgu.edu
www.wgu.edu
Table of Contents
About Western Governors University 5
Admissions 14
State Regulatory Information 21
Tuition and Financial Aid 26
Academic Policies 32
Academic Programs 49
College of Business Programs 51
B.S. Business Management 52
B.S. Business - Healthcare Management 54
B.S. Business - Human Resource Management 56
B.S. Business - Information Technology Management 58
B.S. Marketing Management 60
B.S. Accounting 62
Master of Business Administration 64
MBA Information Technology Management 65
MBA Healthcare Management 66
M.S. Management and Leadership 67
M.S. Accounting 68
College of Health Professions Programs 69
B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) 70
B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN) 72
B.S. Health Information Management 73
M.S. Nursing - Education 75
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management 76
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics 77
M.S. Nursing - Education (RN to MSN) 78
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN) 80
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN) 82
Master of Health Leadership 84
College of Information Technology Programs 85
B.S. Cloud and Systems Administration 86
B.S. Computer Science 88
B.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 90
B.S. Data Management/Data Analytics 92
B.S. Information Technology 94
B.S. Network Operations and Security 96
B.S. Software Development 98
M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 100
M.S. Data Analytics 101
M.S. Information Technology Management 102
Teachers College Programs 103
B.A. Elementary Education 105
B.A. Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure) 107
B.A. Special Education (Mild to Moderate) 109
B.S. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) 111
B.S. Mathematics Education (Secondary) 113
B.S. Science Education (Middle Grades) 115
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) 117
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) 119
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) 121
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Physics) 123
Post-Baccalaureate, Elementary Education 125
M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education 126
M.A. Teaching, English Education (Secondary) 127
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) 128
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary) 129
M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary) 130
M.S. Curriculum and Instruction 131
M.S. Special Education (K-12) 132
M.S. Educational Leadership 133
M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12) 134
M.Ed. Instructional Design 135
M.Ed. Learning and Technology 136
M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6) 137
M.A. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) 138
M.A. Mathematics Education (Secondary) 139
M.A. Science Education (Middle Grades) 140
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) 141
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) 142
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) 143
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Physics) 144
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12) 145
Endorsement Preparation Program, Educational Leadership 146
Course Descriptions 147
Course Instructor Directory 183
About Western Governors University
WGU is a fully accredited online university offering online bachelor and master degree programs.
The vision of Western Governors University is to serve the needs of today's information age citizens. Now more than
ever, people need easy access to affordable, practical education that will give them skills and knowledge they can take
directly into the workplace. WGU meets that need directly by providing high-quality, accessible education in fields of
study that are in demand. WGU does this through the use of technology to overcome barriers of time and distance.
Through the use of the Internet, videoconferencing and other methods, students and teachers create valuable contact
that is essential to the learning process without having to incur the expense and inconvenience of traveling to a campus.
WGU awards its competency-based degrees based on what a student knows and can do, rather than on the number of
hours a student spends in class. WGU does this by administering assessments that give a student an opportunity to
demonstrate his or her mastery of a particular subject area. Those same assessments give an employer or prospective
employer confidence in the student's abilities.
An Online University with a Mission
WGU is mission driven. Created to expand access to higher education through online, competency-based degree
programs, WGU’s mission has remained one of helping hardworking adults meet their educational goals and improve
their career opportunities.
To fulfill the mission, the founding governors also insisted that WGU help students achieve their dreams for a degree
and career success by providing a personal, flexible, and affordable education based on real world competencies. Thus,
WGU strives to serve as many students as possible—including minorities, first-generation college students, those with
modest incomes, and others whose lives or geographic locations do not allow them to attend traditional, campus-based
colleges.
Today’s WGU student body is quite diverse. WGU serves students residing in all 50 states, in both urban and rural
settings, and active-duty military personnel and their spouses at overseas military installations. The average WGU
student is 37 years old and works full or part-time jobs while attending. Most students pursuing a bachelor’s degree
already have some college experience.
The mission of Western Governors University is to improve quality and expand access to post-secondary educational
opportunities by providing a means for individuals to learn independent of time and place and to earn competency-
based degrees and other credentials that are credible to both academic institutions and employers.
Institutional Core Themes
Mission fulfillment at WGU is defined by a series of critical statements that are at the very heart of the university’s
operations. Those statements are represented by WGU’s core themes. WGU’s core themes, their objectives, and
measures of success express the university’s commitment to the mission. The core themes are universally accepted by
faculty and staff and display the values and goals WGU plans to achieve. The metrics assigned to each objective will be
evaluated to measure the success of each one, and ultimately signify how effectively WGU is reaching mission
fulfillment.
Core Theme 1: Develop people and leaders that enable WGU to accelerate its pace of innovation and meet scaling
demands for rapidly improving student success, an ever-growing student body, and increasing sector influence and peer
enablement.
Core Theme 2: Advance the quality and relevancy of our academic credentials using a competency-based approach to
enable students and graduates with the skills and competencies directly linked to professional readiness and success in
the nation’s workforce for education, IT, business, and health.
Core Theme 3: Accelerate advancements in student progress and attainment by driving the advancement of next-
generation learning models that leverage technology, innovative faculty models, individualized learning, integrative
program paths, self-service, social engagement, etc.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 5
Core Theme 4: Expand access to high quality, affordable post-secondary programs, particularly among the under-
served student populations, through greater awareness, credibility, efficiency, enabling partnerships and financial
prudence.
Competency-Based Education
Colleges and universities traditionally award credit for classroom hours attended, conferring degrees based on
completion of a certain set of courses for a given number of credit hours. As an online institution that provides its
students the convenience of studying and completing coursework outside the classroom, WGU offers a competency-
based program for completing its degree and certificate requirements. Competency-based programs allow students to
demonstrate through assessments that they have acquired the competencies (levels of knowledge, skill, or ability)
required for a particular degree or certificate. Adult students have often acquired many of the skills necessary for a
degree through their life or previous work experience. WGU’s competency-based system enables students to employ
such previously learned skills in proving their competency.
A team of faculty and other subject-matter experts have identified the required competencies for each degree offered at
WGU. Competencies summarize the critical knowledge and skill levels essential for mastery of a particular field. WGU
students demonstrate mastery of competencies by completing assessments. An assessment may be a traditional “test,”
a project, an essay, or another practical demonstration of a required skill. Therefore, assessments come in many
different forms, including:
● Assignments involving problem-solving in science or information technology;
● Computerized math examinations consisting of multiple-choice, matching, and other question types;
● Projects requiring the student to design a lesson plan about American history;
● Reflection essays about case studies; and
● Research papers on particular topics within the student’s field.
Each assessment measures knowledge and skill in a given area through an appropriate means, allowing students to
prove their competency in that content area. Assessments at WGU are developed using a rigorous process that
conforms to federal guidelines and professional testing standards. This process yields high-quality exams, reliable
results, and supports valid conclusions about each student’s level of competence. Students can be confident that all
their assessments, whether computerized exams or performance tasks, align to, and demonstrate specific competencies
in their individual degree programs.
Accreditation
Accreditation provides evidence that outside evaluators have carefully reviewed and approved WGU’s programs and
policies, enables the transfer of credits to other accredited institutions, and legitimizes degree credentials for employers
and colleges.
Regional Accreditation
Western Governors University is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities
(NWCCU), one of the major accrediting commissions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Regional
accreditation is the highest form of accreditation. WGU has the distinction of being the only university to receive regional
accreditation simultaneously from four regional accrediting commissions. This was in part because of our founding by
the governors of 19 U.S. states, which encompass a wide geographic region. The NWCCU is now considered WGU’s
home accrediting body.
CAEP
The Teachers College at Western Governors University is granted accreditation at the initial-licensure level from CAEP,
the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation, 1140 19th St NW, Suite 400 Washington, DC 20036, (202)
223-0077. CAEP is the only recognized national accreditor for educator preparation. WGU is the first competency-based
online university to receive CAEP accreditation for its degree programs that lead to teacher licensure.
CCNE
Officially recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a national accreditation agency, the Commission on
Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) is an autonomous accrediting agency, contributing to the improvement of public
health. CCNE ensures the quality and integrity of baccalaureate and graduate programs preparing effective nurses.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 6
CCNE accreditation supports and encourages continuing self-assessment by nursing education programs and supports
continuing growth and improvement of collegiate professional education. In 2014, the Commission on Collegiate Nursing
Education’s Board of Commissioners granted continuing accreditation to the bachelor's and master’s nursing degree
programs at Western Governors University for ten years, extending to June 30, 2024. The programs received
unconditional approval by illustrating full compliance with all key elements. CCNE contact information: 655 K Street NW,
Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791.
CAHIIM
WGU’s Health Information Management program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health
Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM).
ACBSP
All of WGU's College of Business bachelor's and master's degree programs are accredited by the Accreditation Council
for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP), a leading specialized accreditation association for business education.
ACBSP accredits business, accounting, and business-related programs at the associate, baccalaureate, master, and
doctorate degree levels worldwide. The accreditation focuses on recognizing teaching excellence, determining student
learning outcomes, and a continuous improvement model. Institutions with programs accredited by ACBSP are
committed to continuous improvement that ensures business programs deliver students the skills employers want.
University Governance
WGU is governed by the Board of Trustees consisting of educators, industry leaders, and state governors. In addition,
WGU continues to draw support (although no state funding) from the governors of the member states that were
instrumental in the founding of WGU.
Board of Trustees:
The Honorable Jim Geringer, Chairman Tammy Johns
Director, Policy & Public Sector, ESRI CEO, Strategy & Talent
Governor of Wyoming, 1995-2003 Former Executive, Manpower Group
John W. Bluford, III Lenny Mendonca
President, Bluford Healthcare Leadership Institute Director Emeritus
Former President, Truman Medical Centers McKinsey & Company
Cole Clark Scott D. Pulsipher
Executive Director, Higher Education Client Relations President
Deloitte Services, LP Western Governors University
Former Global VP for Education and Research, Oracle
Dr. Therese (Terry) Crane David Simmons
President, Crane Associates President
Former Executive with Apple and AOL Simmons Media Group
Robert Evanson Dr. Samuel H. Smith
Former President President Emeritus
McGraw Hill Education Washington State University
Joseph B. Fuller Dr. Charles Sorenson
Professor of Management Practice and Co-Director President and CEO
of the Managing the Future of Work Project Intermountain Healthcare
Harvard Business School
The Honorable Gary Herbert Van Ton-Quinlivan
Governor Executive-in-Residence
State of Utah Institute for the Future (IFTF)
The Honorable John Hickenlooper Jessie Woolley-Wilson
Governor CEO and President
State of Colorado Dreambox Learning
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 7
The following link provides information about the Board of Trustees, National Advisory Board, and other university
officials: https://www.wgu.edu/about/governance.html
National Advisory Board:
Another crucial source of support is our National Advisory Board, made up of representatives from prestigious
corporations and foundations. Members provide ongoing support and advice to the university.
WGU’s National Advisory Board is a diverse group of industry leaders. Its members help WGU foster a global, visionary
perspective in the strategic planning process, ultimately enhancing our ability to fulfill our mission. Current members
include:
AT&T Hospital Corporation of America J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Foundation
CenturyLink Lumina Foundation Simmons Media Group
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Tenet Healthcare
Dell Microsoft Wasatch Property Management
Google Oracle
Hewlett-Packard Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Academic Leadership:
Scott D. Pulsipher Marni Baker Stein
President Provost and Chief Academic Officer
MBA, Harvard University Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania
Fred Hurst Sarah DeMark
Vice President for Academic Advancement Vice President for Academic Programs
Ph.D., Union Institute and University Ph.D., Arizona State University
Stacey Ludwig Johnson Deb Eldridge
VP, Academic Operations, Teachers College Academic Vice President, Teachers College
Ph.D., University of Colorado-Denver Ed.D., Boston University
Mitsu Frazier Rashmi Prasad
VP, Academic Operations, College of Business Academic Vice President, College of Business
MBA, Western Governors University Ph.D., University of Kentucky
Daren Upham Jan Jones-Schenk
VP, Academic Operations, College of Health Professions Academic Vice President, College of Health Professions
MBA, American InterContinental University DHSc., A.T. Still University
John Balderree Elke Leeds
VP, Academic Operations, College of Information Technology Academic Vice President, College of Information Technology
MBA, American InterContinental University Ph.D., Walden University
Lucas B. Kavlie
Vice President, Compliance & Accreditation
Ed.D., University of North Texas
Academic Program Governance
Academic programs are developed and guided by WGU administrators working through several councils comprised of
academicians and industry experts in the various fields of knowledge. Each WGU academic program has a program
council which is the official faculty governing body for a degree or certification program. Program councils, along with
the program coordinator, are responsible for overseeing the development of the curriculum (including performance
descriptions, subdomains and domains), overseeing all assessments, and updating the curriculum.
In addition to program councils, an Assessment Council comprised of assessment experts is responsible for working
with academic program councils, assessment development vendors and WGU assessment staff to ensure that the
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 8
assessments developed are appropriate tests of the competencies identified by the program councils. For a listing of
members of the Academic Leadership, Assessment Council, Health Professions Program Council, Nursing Program
Council, General Education Program Council, Business Program Council, Information Technology Program Council, and
Education Program Council, please see links available at: https://www.wgu.edu/about/governance.html
Faculty Composition
The faculty at WGU is committed to WGU’s unique, student-centric, competency-based approach that places the
greatest emphasis on student learning. Because learning at WGU is personalized, we do not use typical online classes
that are dependent upon fixed schedules or group pacing. Instead, each student is guided and assisted through a
personalized learning experience by faculty and staff serving in different capacities:
Program Mentors
For each student, the primary faculty support is a personally assigned Program Mentor, formerly known as Student
Mentors. The role of the Program Mentor is to provide program instruction, coaching, and support from the moment an
individual becomes a student to the time he or she graduates. This support involves regularly scheduled academic
progress conversations weekly and active involvement in other aspects of the student’s academic career. While not an
expert in all subjects, the Program Mentor guides the student through the overall program and offers coaching, direction,
and practical advice. Specifically, Program Mentors:
● Provide program instruction and guidance from enrollment to graduation.
● Provide information on programs, policies, and procedures.
● Assess students' strengths and development needs to help establish a study plan.
● Help students sustain motivation and progress to graduation.
● Recommend appropriate student services.
Course Instructors
WGU’s Course Instructors are subject matter experts who instruct and support students as they engage specific
sections of the WGU curriculum. Their experience and advanced training is specific to the courses they support. They
are knowledgeable and can address any issue that might arise related to a course, a learning resource, or an
assessment. Specifically, Course Instructors:
● Bring WGU courses of study to life with students via one-to-many or one-to-one forums.
● Provide instruction both proactively and reactively—the type and intensity of instruction varies based on a
student's needs in a particular subject.
● Provide content expertise for students who are struggling with course material.
Evaluators
Evaluators are subject matter experts tasked with reviewing assessment submissions in a fair and unbiased manner to
determine if competency has been demonstrated. As established professionals within their fields, they bring years of
hands-on experience and training to the position. Specifically, Evaluators:
● Are experts in their areas of evaluation, with doctoral degrees or other post-graduate training or certifications..
● Review submissions extensively, providing clear and comprehensive feedback to support student development.
● Focus on evaluating student performance, free of bias and other barriers to fair and timely evaluation because
they do not personally interact with students or develop curriculum and assessments.
Curriculum and Assessment Faculty
While students interact with faculty members who specialize in instruction, support, and evaluation, behind the scenes
another group of faculty members is busy developing our high-quality curriculum and assessments, ensuring the quality
of what students are learning and the value of their degrees. This separation of faculty roles is key to WGU's ability to
provide on-demand, one-on-one faculty support without sacrificing our commitment to continuous improvement in our
programs.
● Curriculum Faculty — Faculty members who specialize in curriculum development are experts in the science of
learning. These college-aligned faculty members are deeply informed about the competencies required by
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 9
academic standards-setting organizations and the industries they serve. They ensure the curriculum and
instructional materials are evidence-based and academically rigorous—as well as engaging and focused on
student success.
● Assessment Faculty — Assessment faculty members are experts in the science and craft of creating high-quality
assessments that are valid and reliable. Assessments that can establish which students have achieved
competency and which still need additional learning are central to WGU's competency-based model.
Academic Calendar
The traditional academic calendar with limited enrollment periods, holidays, and other significant dates is not applicable.
In the WGU continuous-enrollment model, new groups of students start every month. Students can access learning
resources, schedule assessments, view grader notes, and complete online performance assessments any time, day or
night, without regard to holidays and other significant dates.
Instead of semesters, at which time many students begin (or continue) their programs, WGU starts new students at the
beginning of each month, which launches a new "term."
A "term" at WGU is six months in length. The six months that make up a term are based on when the student begins
their program. (For example, if a student begins their program March 1st, the first term will last from March 1st to August
31st. The second term would begin September 1st.) Tuition is billed at a flat rate every term. Students pay for time, not
by credit hour or by course.
Learning Resources
WGU students use a variety of learning resources to acquire the skills and knowledge needed to complete
assessments. These learning resources come in a variety of forms, including, but not limited to:
● E-textbooks
● Library services
● Web-based tutorials
● Simulations
● Online classes
● Learning communities
The majority of these learning resources are covered by the resource fee, and in some degree plans a program or lab
fee, with select textbooks not being covered. These resources are made available through partnerships with third-party
education providers.
Student Services
Students enrolling at WGU become much more than a student. They become a part of a community; of students, faculty,
mentors, and staff all united under one common goal: student success.
WGU has a Student Services team dedicated exclusively to helping students achieve their academic goals. The Student
Services Office is available during extended hours to assist students with general questions and administrative or
accessibility issues.
The Student Services team helps students resolve issues, listens to student issues and concerns, and makes
recommendations for improving policy and practice based on student feedback. The Student Services team provides a
formal means by which students can express their views, and those views in turn inform the decisions we make.
The Student Services team assists students with unresolved concerns to find equitable resolutions. Prior to contacting
the Student Services Office with a complaint, a student should always work first with his or her mentor. Mentors have the
expertise to guide students toward goals and direct them to the resources they need to be successful. If, however, a
student has an issue or problem that cannot be resolved by the mentor, the student is invited to contact the Student
Services Office.
To contact the Student Services team, please call 877.435.7948 or email studentservices@wgu.edu. Representatives
are available Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and Saturday from 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed Sunday).
Other services available to students include:
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 10
Mentoring
WGU will not leave students on their own to figure out what resources are available. Students have a dedicated partner
in their education: a mentor committed to connecting them with what is needed to succeed. Our mentoring program is
like nothing else in higher education.
Student Success Office
For students having issues or complaints that cannot be resolved by the program mentor, WGU’s Student Success
Office is available to help. Students always have an advocate for their success throughout the duration of their degree
program.
IT Service Desk
As an online university, technology plays a large role in operations. WGU’s IT Service Desk is available to help students
resolve any technology problem (call 877.435.7948 or email servicedesk@wgu.edu). The Service Desk is open Monday
through Friday, 6 AM to 10 PM MT and Saturday and Sunday, 10 AM to 7 PM MT .
WGU Student Assistance Program
WGU has partnered with the Wellness Corporation to provide WellConnect™, a free, voluntary, and confidential service
which offers counseling and support services to students. WellConnect provides support with a live clinician by phone
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Due to WGU’s online presence and lack of a physical campus, the WellConnect student
assistance program constitutes the extent of healthcare services available to WGU students.
Tools for Success
Students are given all the tools needed to reach out and network with their peers; including message boards, emails, a
student portal, and more.
Alumni Community
The Alumni Community provides benefits and resources as a free service to WGU graduates. Graduates have access to
the alumni community website when they register as a member. Membership is always free. The Alumni Relations
customer service team is always available to answer any questions or concerns.
Alumni Community website: http://alumni.wgu.edu
Alumni Relations team contact info: alumni@wgu.edu or 866-895-2085
Alumni and Student LinkedIn Group: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/51112
This is a closed group. Graduates and students must request to be added as a member.
Networking Tools
Connect with other graduates using the alumni community website member directory or the LinkedIn alumni and student
group. Read fellow graduate stories, or submit individual stories to be featured on the website or in the alumni
newsletter. The alumni community website also lists upcoming local events.
Continuing Education
Access the alumni library, Skillport, and MindEdge One Hour Courses through the alumni community website. Look for
additional continuing education opportunities on the alumni community website benefits page, in the alumni newsletter,
and in announcement emails.
Discount Programs
WGU partners with many companies to offer exclusive discounts and benefits to our graduates. Visit the alumni
community website benefits page to browse available discounts.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 11
Ongoing Communication
Stay connected to WGU via the alumni newsletter, WGU Night Owl blog, WGU Facebook page, and the WGU Twitter
feed.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Host a networking event, work with a student or prospective student who could use advice from someone who’s “been
there”, refer friends to WGU, or donate to the WGU alumni scholarship fund – 100% of donations go toward helping
future WGU students.
Career and Professional Development
WGU provides career assistance and resources to graduates and students. Career and Professional Development
(CPD) Specialists are available to assist students and graduates develop a career plan, implement job-search
strategies, and assist with the creation of marketing tools such as resumes, cover letters, and social media profiles.
Additionally, students and graduates have exclusive 24/7 self-service access to professional career resources, such as
resume development and practice interview software, self-assessments, and job banks. Live and recorded webinars are
also available on a variety of popular career and job search topics.
WGU Career and Professional Development Website: www.wgu.edu/careerservices
The WGU Career and Professional Development Center provides the following resources:
New Student Orientation to Western Governors University
WGU provides information on Career & Professional Development services to all new students during Orientation.
Students are invited to complete a voluntary survey regarding their career goals, current employment status and
experience level. Upon completing the survey, they are sent an email from the Career & Professional Development
Center guiding them to resources and inviting them to connect with a Career & Professional Development (CPD)
Specialist.
Career Resources Website
WGU students and graduates have access to the career resources website. Here, students and graduates can find
information, tools and resources covering a broad range of career and job search topics, including the WGU Job Board,
career planning, resume writing, interviewing, networking and applying to graduate school.
Weekly Career Webinars (WGU CareerWise Webinars)
Career & Professional Development offers weekly career webinars featuring top career authors and experts designed to
help students and graduates with all aspects of career management and the job search process. Webinars are
organized into tracks that allow for personalization based on the participant’s career needs and goals.
Individual Appointments with Career & Professional Development (CPD) Specialists
CPD Specialists provide a variety of services including: career planning, resume/cover letter assistance, interview
strategies, search tips and networking assistance.
Resume Assistance
Students and graduates have access to online information and tools to help them create customized and professional
resumes. In addition, CPD Specialists assist students/graduates individually by reviewing and critiquing their resumes.
Practice Interviews
CPD Specialists help prepare students/graduates to succeed in interviews by providing them with information on how to
interview and by conducting practice interviews with students/graduates. The Career & Professional Development
Center also offers practice interview software.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 12
Access to National Job and Internship Postings
Students/graduates have access to the WGU Job Board which includes direct postings from employers as well as a job
aggregator. Students and graduates can perform a nation-wide search for entry-level through experienced-level jobs.
Networking Opportunities with WGU Alumni
WGU students/graduates can connect with WGU graduates and other students who have accounts with LinkedIn and/or
Facebook.
Information on Applying to Graduate School
The Career & Professional Development Center offers on-line resources and individual advising to students/graduates
interested in continuing their education via graduate school.
Note: WGU does not guarantee employment upon degree completion or provide placement services.
Library
WGU's library makes its services and resources easily available to students 24 hours a day. Library services include
access to article and E-book databases, Online Reference Support, Interlibrary Loan services, and Course E-reserves.
WGU’s library maintains major academic databases, giving students search and full-text access to academic materials
through Academic Search Complete, ABI/Inform, Applied Science and Technology Full Text, Art Full Text, Biography
Reference Bank, Business Abstracts with Full Text, Business Source Premier, Education Full Text, CINAHL complete,
General Science Full Text, Humanities Full Text, Health Business Elite, Hoovers Company Profiles, JSTOR NCTM
Journals, Medline Complete, Ovid Nursing Journals, Science Direct, and Wilson Omnifile Fulltext Mega. Students have
an array of options when searching for journal articles, including searching through EBSCO discovery service, a
federated search engine, by journal title using an A-Z Journal linker, or by subject (e.g., education, science and
technology, health sciences, etc.).
Ebrary Academic, and EBSCO Academic, two of our subscription E-book providers, gives students access to over
134,000 full-text electronic books. Students also have access to Books 24/7, with an additional 24,400 plus full-text e-
books. WGU provides Interlibrary Loan services for its students through the University of Michigan’s interlibrary loan
service. The University of Michigan University Library in Ann Arbor, Michigan is one of the largest university library
systems in the United States. The system, consisting of 19 separate libraries in 11 buildings, altogether holds over 9.55
million volumes, with the collection growing at the rate of 177,000 volumes a year. The library also holds many special
collections which align themselves with WGU’s various degree programs.
Facilities
As an online university, WGU does not have a physical campus or equipment other than its state-of-the-art computing
and networking resources to meet the needs of students working at a distance. Prospective students are informed of the
computer capacity requirements for successful access to all WGU systems and learning resources. WGU has various
administrative offices placed throughout the United States with the headquarters located in Utah.
WGU Building Locations:
● Arizona: 432 N 44th St, Suite 400; Phoenix, AZ 85008 (enrollment center ONLY)
● California: 2900 South Harbor Blvd, Suite 201; Santa Ana, CA 92704 (nursing lab ONLY)
● Indiana: 10 W Market St, Suite 1020; Indianapolis, IN 46204
● Missouri: 8000 Maryland Ave, Suite 410; St. Louis, MO 63105 (with enrollment center)
● Nevada: 6795 S Edmond St, Floor 3; Las Vegas, NV 89118
● North Carolina: 1009 Slater Rd, Suite 310; Durham, NC 27703
● Tennessee: 501 Corporate Centre Dr, Suite 390; Franklin, TN 37067
● Texas: 12515 Research Blvd, Building 8, Suite 250; Austin, TX 78759 (with enrollment center)
● Utah: 4001 S 700 E, Suite 700; Salt Lake City, UT 84107 (with enrollment center)
● Washington: 20435 72nd Ave. South, Suite 301; Kent, WA 98032
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 13
Admissions
General Admission Requirements
WGU seeks to admit individuals who have the capacity and determination to complete a rigorous WGU degree
program... and graduate. The admission process is designed to help students and the university reach an informed
decision about a student's likelihood of success.
Not every applicant is admitted because not every individual is a good “fit” for WGU’s programs and competency-based
model.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/requirements
Admissions Criteria:
● Interview(s) with a WGU Enrollment Counselor
● Prior college experience and work experience
● Results from the WGU Collegiate Readiness Assessment (if required)
● The time commitment one can make to their studies
To be considered for admission to WGU, students must meet the following minimum requirements, although completing
these requirements does not guarantee admission:
Undergraduate Programs:
● Apply for admission
● Have earned a high school diploma or GED
● Submit official transcripts for all prior college academic work completed
● Be at least 16 years of age
● Meet any program-specific admissions requirements
● Interview with a WGU Enrollment Counselor to determine “fit” with WGU’s expectations
Graduate Programs:
● Apply for admission
● Submit an official transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from a recognized, accredited institution*
● Submit official transcripts for all prior college academic work completed
● Be at least 16 years of age
● Meet any program-specific admissions requirements
● Interview with a WGU Enrollment Counselor to determine “fit” with WGU’s expectations
Prospective students seeking admission to a WGU undergraduate degree program must be no less than 16 years of
age. Prospective students seeking admission to WGU undergraduate or graduate licensure degree programs must be
no less than 18 years of age at the time of clinical or field placement requirements. Furthermore, prospective students
may not be incarcerated in a state or federal penal institution. Prospective students must also meet all other general and
specific degree program admission requirements on the WGU website.
For convenience, WGU starts new groups of students in most degree programs every month. Currently, WGU programs
do not require a minimum GPA (grade point average) or a specific score on either the SAT or the ACT.
*Note: More information is available at https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Admission/Bachelor-s-Degree-for-Admission-to-Graduate-
Programs/ta-p/1
Steps and Deadlines for Enrollment
Below is the list of steps and their respective deadlines required for enrollment into an online degree program:
1. Apply for admission and pay the application fee. The application fee is $65. WGU accepts cash, checks, and web
checks/EFT at no additional cost. Credit cards (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express) are also accepted,
but a 2.75% credit card fee applies. The application fee must be paid before an application will be fully processed. Note:
WGU does not profit from application fees as they only offset a small portion of admission and enrollment costs.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 14
2. Send in official transcripts. Provide a high school degree, GED or equivalent or transcripts from a prior college
experience are required if a student is seeking transfer credit, confirmation of sufficient background (for post-
baccalaureate and master’s licensure programs), or if looking to enroll into a graduate program.
Official transcript copies must arrive by the 1st of the month prior to the intended start date for evaluation. Please make
arrangements for the official copies to be sent to:
Western Governors University
ATTN: Transcripts Department
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
Note: If, for some reason, a student is unable or does not wish to send prior transcripts, an Enrollment or Admission
Counselor can advise on available options.
3. Complete the Readiness Assessment. The WGU Readiness Assessment is a three-part online test designed to
determine a student’s likelihood of success at WGU, testing competency in reading, writing, and math. An Enrollment
Counselor can answer questions regarding this assessment. Potential graduate students are not required to complete
the assessment.
4. Complete the Financial Aid application process (if necessary). If a student intends to use federal financial aid to cover
tuition expenses, they will need to complete WGU’s financial aid application process and be certified as eligible to
receive aid no later than the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start date. An Enrollment Counselor can direct a
student with financial aid questions to the proper department.
5. Interview with Enrollment Counselor. Individuals will have one or more interviews with a designated Enrollment
Counselor to review the student’s application, answer questions and explain institution expectations for online learning.
The calls ensure individuals have accurate and appropriate information about WGU, the program, and what will be
expected. In addition, a 20- to 30-minute Intake Interview will be required to finalize enrollment and officially establish a
program start date. (The Intake Interview needs to occur by the 15th of the month prior to the intended start date.)
6. Satisfy first tuition obligation. First tuition payment will be due by the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start
date. If planning to use financial aid, students need to start the financial aid process right after paying the application
fee. There is a payment plan available to those who are not using financial aid. WGU strongly encourages students to
make tuition arrangements or finish the financial aid process sooner than the 22nd as this will permit students to begin
orientation at any time after the 15th of the month.
7. Complete Orientation. Once cleared to begin, students will begin orientation. This orientation will acquaint students
with WGU’s unique competency-based academic approach and a link to the various learning resources utilized
throughout the program. Students should complete orientation before starting a program on the first of the month.
State-specific requirements: https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/state-college-admissions-requirements.html
See the program-specific admission requirements below for additional admission requirements.
Teachers College Admission Requirements
The WGU Teachers College is a recognized leader in online teacher education. Below are admission requirements
specific to Teachers College programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements (also see
Academic Programs section for additional program requirements).
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/tc_requirements
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Initial Teacher Certification:
Students who are seeking initial teacher licensure in a bachelor’s, post-baccalaureate, or master’s program must also
pass a state-specific basic skills test for the state in which they live as a prerequisite to Demonstration Teaching (student
teaching). Registering and paying for the test is the student’s responsibility. This requirement can be met either prior to
admission or before beginning the Foundations of Teaching subject area once enrolled in the WGU program.
WGU’s teacher licensure programs also include Demonstration Teaching (student teaching). Students must be at least
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 15
18 years of age before they may begin the application process or participate in Preclinical Experiences and
Demonstration Teaching. Students must also submit to a criminal background check prior to entering the classroom for
this component of the program.
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Endorsement:
If enrolled in a program that also includes a special endorsement (for example, the M.A. in Mathematics Education, with
an endorsement to teach secondary mathematics) and the student plans to eventually apply for the endorsement, the
following are required:
● A copy of a valid teaching license.
● Official transcripts demonstrating that a bachelor’s degree was earned from a recognized accredited university.
Additionally, to enroll in the Endorsement Preparation Program for Educational Leadership, students must also provide
official transcripts that demonstrate they have earned a master's degree from a recognized accredited university.
An Enrollment Counselor will instruct students as to when and how to submit a teaching license prior to or during the
program. Students do not need to submit a copy of the license if they are not seeking the endorsement.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership Program:
Prior to entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership, students will be required to submit the following documents:*
● Leadership essay
● Building Principal Supervisor Verfication form
● Case study and practicum agreement (students in Washington, Arkansas, California, Illinois, Ohio, Oregon,
Texas, Wisconsin, Wyoming, and Missouri will use different versions)
*Documents are available at http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/tc_requirements.
Additional Requirements for Entry into Post-Baccalaureate or M.A. in Teaching Programs:
To be considered eligible for enrollment into a Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program or M.A. in Teaching
degree program, students must provide official transcripts that demonstrate they have earned a bachelor’s degree from
a recognized accredited university and meet appropriate content requirements as described at
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/tc_requirements by subject area:
● Elementary Education
● English
● Mathematics
● Science
An Enrollment Counselor can help students best determine whether they have the sufficient background for entry into
their program of choice.
College of Business Admission Requirements
Degrees from the College of Business emphasize mastery of the skills and knowledge that are essential for continued
advancement. Below are admission requirements specific to College of Business programs that are in addition to
WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/business_requirements
Special Requirements for WGU’s MBA Programs and M.S. Management and Leadership Program:
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from a recognized accredited institution.
● Submit a resume demonstrating at least three years of significant experience in business, industry, or a non-profit
organization.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 16
Special Requirements for WGU’s MS Accounting Program:
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree in accounting from a recognized, accredited institution.
● Demonstrate accounting experience through at least one of the following methods:
● A bachelor's degree in accounting.
● A Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license.
Note: There are no special admission requirements for entry into a bachelor's level business degree program.
College of Information Technology Admission Requirements
Degree programs from WGU's College of Information Technology focus on providing the skills, knowledge, certifications,
and credentials students need to be a successful IT pro. Below are admissions requirements specific to College of
Information Technology programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/it_requirements
Special Requirements for WGU’s B.S. Computer Science Program:
Students must be able to use key calculus principles, rules, and applications while in the B.S. Computer Science
program. Students must meet the following admission requirements for admittance to this program:
● Possess a high school diploma or its equivalent.
● Demonstrate math readiness through completion of one of the following:
● Successful and verifiable completion of a pre-calculus course from a WGU approved third-party provider.
● Successful and verifiable completion of a pre-calculus, calculus, or higher-than-calculus math course from
an accredited post-secondary academic institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s other IT bachelor's degree programs:
To be considered for enrollment into a College of IT bachelor's degree program, students must possess a high school
diploma or its equivalent. For all IT bachelor's programs other than B.S. Computer Science, students must also be able
to demonstrate IT experience through at least one of the following:
● Option 1: Possess an associate’s degree in information technology or equivalent (A.S. or A.A.S. acceptable).
● Option 2: Possess a high-level IT certification in network, security, programming, data management, operating
systems, or hardware management earned within the last five years.
● Option 3: Provide a resume showing three-plus years of IT work experience.
● Option 4: Show completion of high-level IT coursework within the last five years:
● Two or more upper-level networking courses; OR
● Two or more upper-level object-oriented programming courses (Java, C#, etc.); OR
● One or more upper-level operating systems courses; OR
● One or more upper-level information security and assurance courses.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from a regionally or nationally accredited institution.
● Demonstrate IT security experience through at least one of the following three methods:
● Option 1: Possess a bachelor’s degree from a regionally or nationally accredited institution in either IT
security or IT networking that covers at least two CISSP CBK domains.
● Option 2: Possess any bachelor's degree from a regionally or nationally accredited university AND hold a
CISSP, CCIE, CCNP, CCNA, CCNA Security, CEH, CHFI, GIAC 2700 or GCWN certification that is valid
and earned within the last five years.
● Option 3: Possess any bachelor's degree from a regionally or nationally accredited university AND submit a
resume for review showing recent significant IT security experience, of at least three years, which
demonstrates at least two CISSP CBK domains.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 17
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. IT Management Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from a regionally or nationally accredited institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Data Analytics Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from a regionally or nationally accredited institution.
● Demonstrate experience with data analysis through at least one of the following methods:
● Option 1: Possess a bachelor’s degree in information systems, systems engineering, data management,
data analysis, computer science, mathematics, software, statistics, accounting/finance.
● Option 2: Hold an Udacity nanodegree in data analytics.
● Option 3: Submit a resume for review showing at least 3 years of significant and recent experience in data
analysis.
● Option 4: Provide verification of a current Oracle SQL, Oracle BI, or SAS certification that has been earned
in the past five years.
College of Health Professions Admission Requirements
All of the degrees offered by WGU’s College of Health Professions focus on mastery of the skills and knowledge that are
essential to success in this vital and high-demand field. Below are admissions requirements specific to College of Health
Professions programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/health_requirements
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Health Information Management Program:
● Possess a high school diploma or its equivalent.
● Demonstrate IT, healthcare, or business experience either through one of the following:
● Option 1: An associate’s degree from a CAHIIM-accredited health information technology program (A.S. or
A.A.S. acceptable).
● Option 2: An associate’s degree in information technology or equivalent (A.S. or A.A.S. acceptable).
● Option 3: An associate’s degree from an allied health program (A.S or A.A.S. acceptable).
● Option 4: An associate’s degree in business administration (A.S or A.A.S. acceptable).
● Option 5: Transferable certifications earned within the last five years.
● Option 6: A resume showing three years of information technology work experience or strategic business
management experience or one year of healthcare-related work experience or a healthcare-related
certification (e.g., medical assistant, EMT, paramedic).
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. in Nursing Program:
● Must possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing.
● Must possess a current, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license.
● Must submit a resume and be actively working as an RN at the time of application and enrollment.
● Must submit to a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com). California
residents are also required to provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (RN to MSN
Option) Programs:
● Must possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing.
● Must possess a current, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license.
● Must submit a resume and be actively working as an RN at the time of application and enrollment.
● Must submit to a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com). California
residents are also required to provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (BSN to MSN
Option) Programs:
● Must possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN).
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 18
● Must possess a current, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license.
● Must submit a resume and be actively working as an RN at the time of application and enrollment.
● Must submit to a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com). California
residents are also required to provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special Requirements for WGU’s Master of Health Leadership program:
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from a recognized, accredited institution.
● Demonstrate healthcare experience through at least one of the following methods:
● A bachelor's degree in nursing, pharmacy, or other clinical discipline and current healthcare leadership
position.
● A clinical graduate degree (M.D., Pharm.D, MSW, etc.) and current healthcare leadership position.
● A bachelor's degree and current employment in a corporate healthcare leadership position.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Program:
Available in *California, **Florida, Indiana, Texas, and Utah - WGU has partnerships with healthcare employers who
provide practice sites and clinical coaches to help teach and inspire students on their path to becoming a nurse.
Admissions into the B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) program is open to aspiring nurses in these select areas who have
completed all prerequisites as outlined below. Enrollment into this program is conducted in two phases of admissions:
Pre-Nursing Curriculum and the Clinical Nursing Program.
*California students please see the California BSRN Admissions and Policy Guide for applicable requirements and other
information related to the program - https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/state-college-admissions-requirements.html
**Florida students please note: WGU is licensed by the Commission for Independent Education. Additional information
regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Commission at 325 West Gaines Street, Suite 1414,
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400, toll-free number (888) 224-6684.
Pre-Nursing Enrollment Requirements:
Applicants must have a minimum of a 2.5 GPA in the required nursing sciences to be considered for enrollment into the
pre-nursing program. Successful completion of a nursing program admission exam is required prior to enrollment.
Enrollment in the university and in the pre-nursing term does not guarantee acceptance into the clinical nursing
program. Applicants are required to submit and/or complete the following items:
● Take and pass the ATI TEAS Exam with a minimum total score of 60% and a reading subtest score of at least 60.
● Submit a professional resume.
● Submit a letter of intent.
● Submit one professional letter of recommendation.
● Submit official transcripts from all previous institutions that show completion of required prerequisites.
Note: Preference will be given to those individuals with a prior college degree. All prerequisites must be complete before
an application for enrollment can be considered. Applicants who are not native speakers of English are required to take
appropriate tests of language proficiency.
Prelicensure Clinical Nursing Program Admission Requirements:
Enrollment into the Pre-Nursing Curriculum and admission into the Clinical Nursing Program is competitive. Students
must first be accepted and enrolled into the Pre-Nursing Curriculum. Students who are successful in the Pre-Nursing
Curriculum will be allowed to apply for admission for the Clinical Nursing Program. Enrollment in the Pre-Nursing
Curriculum is not a guarantee for admission into the Clinical Nursing Program. Students must be at least 18 years of age
before beginning the application process or participating in clinical experiences. Students enrolled in the Pre-Nursing
Curriculum must successfully pass the Foundations in Nursing Skills performance exam during the pre-nursing term in
order to be considered for admission.
Approximately 60 days after enrollment into the Pre-Nursing Curriculum, if qualified, students must apply for admission
into the Clinical Nursing Program. To be considered for admission, the following support documentation must be
provided as part of the application process:
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 19
● Proof of health insurance.†
● Proof of successfully passing of a criminal background check*.
● Proof of successfully passing a urine drug test*.
● Proof of a current immunization record and current negative TB test. To see which immunizations are required,
please visit http://www.wgu.edu/wgu/immunizations.
● Proof of meeting the specific physical requirements in accordance with the core performance standards of the
nursing profession. For examples, please visit http://www.wgu.edu/wgu/physical_requirements.
● Participation in an interview with an admissions committee comprised of two or three committee members
including the State Director of Nursing or designee.
† Note: Student malpractice insurance will be provided by WGU at no cost.
* Note: Starred items are required to be completed no sooner than 90 days prior to beginning the clinical portions of this
program.
Application and acceptance into the program is based on available clinical space, successful completion of all pre-
nursing term course requirements, and numerical ranking of the above items, including a WGU pre-nursing term mentor
recommendation.
LVN Advanced Placement and 30-Unit Option for California Students: Please see the California BSRN Admissions and
Policy Guide for more information - https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/state-college-admissions-requirements.html
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 20
State Regulatory Information
Western Governors University, in compliance with USDOE State Authorization Regulation Section 600.9, will continue to
make a “good faith effort” to receive state authorization or licensure in every state deemed necessary by the
administration and monitor developments in state laws where students reside.
NC-SARA
Western Governors University formally became a member of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity
Agreements (NC-SARA) on October 14, 2016, which results in more efficiency in the state authorization process and
more educational options for our students. For additional information on NC-SARA please refer to their website:
http://nc-sara.org. Because WGU is based in Utah, our portal agency is the Utah System of Higher Education and all
NC-SARA complaints or grievances should be sent to the state as described below.
Students who have a complaint against Western Governors University should first file a complaint with the institution. If
Western Governors University does not resolve the complaint, students may file a complaint with the Utah Board of
Regents at www.higheredutah.org/sara. The Board of Regents will only consider complaints that were previously
unresolved by the institution and may refer a complaint to another agency for investigation.
Professional Licensure
WGU regularly verifies licensure requirements in each state for programs that lead to a professional license. For a
current listing of licensure information, please see the links below.
Teacher Licensure
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Teacher-Licensure-Information/Teacher-Licensure-Pathways-by-State/ta-p/4329
Nursing Licensure
https://indd.adobe.com/view/960dfecf-6b7f-44c8-b69d-2f7bd096700d
Accounting Licensure
https://indd.adobe.com/view/5170df78-db72-4867-8611-02a1ceff9aee
Alabama
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Alabama.
Alaska
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Alaska.
Arizona
Western Governors University is approved by the Arizona State Board for Private Post-Secondary Education. If a
student complaint cannot be resolved after exhausting the Institution’s grievance procedure, the student may file a
complaint with the Arizona State Board for Private Post-Secondary Education. The student must contact the State Board
for further details: 1400 W. Washington, Room 260; Phoenix, AZ 85007; Phone: 602-542-5709; Website:
www.azppse.gov
Arkansas
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Arkansas.
California
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education.
Colorado
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Colorado.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 21
Connecticut
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Connecticut.
Delaware
Western Governors University has received full approval to operate with degree-granting authority in the State of
Delaware, pursuant to the authority granted to the Delaware Department of Education.
District of Columbia
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the District of Columbia.
Florida
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Florida. Western Governors University
is licensed to operate the Prelicensure Nursing program by the Commission for Independent Education, Florida
Department of Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the
Commission at 325 West Gaines Street, Suite 1414, Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400; toll-free telephone number
(888)224-6684; www.fldoe.org/policy/cie.
Georgia
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Georgia.
Hawaii
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Hawaii.
Idaho
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Idaho.
Illinois
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Illinois.
Indiana
Western Governors University, known in Indiana as “Western Governors University Indiana” or “WGU Indiana” was
chartered by Executive Order 10-04 of Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., Governor of the State of Indiana, on June 11, 2010.
Iowa
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Iowa.
Kansas
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Kansas.
Kentucky
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Kentucky.
Louisiana
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Louisiana.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 22
Maine
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Maine.
Maryland
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Maryland.
Massachusetts
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Massachusetts.
Michigan
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Michigan.
Minnesota
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Minnesota.
Mississippi
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Mississippi.
Missouri
Western Governors University, known in Missouri as “Western Governors University Missouri” or “WGU Missouri” was
established by Executive Order 13-04 of Jay Nixon, Governor of the State of Missouri, on February 15, 2013.
Western Governors University is approved to operate online degree programs by the Missouri Department of Higher
Education (205 Jefferson Street, P.O. Box 1469; Jefferson City, MO 65102-1469; info@dhe.mo.gov)
Montana
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Montana.
Nebraska
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Nebraska.
Nevada
Western Governors University, known in Nevada as “Western Governors University Nevada” or “WGU Nevada” was
established by an Executive Proclamation of Brian Sandoval, Governor of the State of Nevada, on June 16, 2015.
New Hampshire
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of New Hampshire.
New Jersey
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of New Jersey.
New Mexico
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of New Mexico.
New York
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of New York.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 23
North Carolina
Western Governors University is approved by The University of North Carolina System.
The UNC System Office
910 Raleigh Road
P.O. Box 2688
Chapel Hill, NC 27514
Website: www.northcarolina.edu/content/contact-us
Student complaints with the state may be submitted to:
North Carolina Post-Secondary Education Complaints
c/o Student Complaints
University of North Carolina System Office
910 Raleigh Road
Chapel Hill, NC 27515-2688
Email: studentcomplaint@northcarolina.edu
Website: http://www.northcarolina.edu/complaints
A Tuition Guarantee Bond for North Carolina is held at the office of the president in Salt Lake City, UT and is reviewable
upon request to those wishing to see it during business hours.
North Dakota
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of North Dakota.
Ohio
Western Governors University is approved by the Ohio Department of Higher Education (25 South Front Street,
Columbus, OH 43215; 614-466-6000; www.ohiohighered.org).
Oklahoma
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Oklahoma.
Oregon
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Oregon
Pennsylvania
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Pennsylvania.
Rhode Island
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Rhode Island.
South Carolina
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of South Carolina.
South Dakota
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of South Dakota.
Tennessee
Western Governors University, known in Tennessee as “Western Governors University Tennessee” or “WGU
Tennessee” was established through a Memorandum of Understanding between Bill Haslam, Governor of the State of
Tennessee, and Robert W. Mendenhall, President of Western Governors University, on July 9, 2013.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 24
Texas
Western Governors University is authorized to conduct courses and grant degrees by the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board.
Western Governors University, known in Texas as “Western Governors University Texas” or “WGU Texas” was
established by Executive Order RP 75 of Rick Perry, Governor of the State of Texas, on August 3, 2011.
Utah
Western Governors University has met the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §13-34a-203 to be a registered
postsecondary school required under 34 C.F.R. 600.9 to be legally authorized by the State of Utah.
Vermont
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Vermont.
Virginia
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Virginia.
Washington
Western Governors University, known in Washington as “Western Governors University Washington” or “WGU
Washington” was established by the passing of Substitute House Bill 1822, effective on July 22, 2011, with the approval
of Christine Gregoire, Governor of the State of Washington.
West Virginia
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of West Virginia.
Wisconsin
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Wisconsin.
Wyoming
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Wyoming.
Puerto Rico
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in Puerto Rico.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 25
Tuition and Financial Aid
Tuition and Fees (Effective January 1, 2019)
WGU charges tuition at a flat rate every term - https://www.wgu.edu/financial-aid-tuition.html
Applicable to All Programs
Resource Fee: $145 Per Term
Application Fee: $65 (One Time)
WGU Transcript Order: $5
Note: WGU does not “profit” from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admission
costs. WGU charges a $145 Resource Fee each term. This fee helps cover the use of the online library, e-textbooks,
and many other learning resources. With few exceptions, required textbooks are available as e-textbooks, so students
won’t have to purchase hard copy textbooks.
College of Business
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,225 Per Term
Graduate Program Tuition: $3,800 Per Term
College of Information Technology
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,225 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
Graduate Program Tuition: $3,540 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
College of Health Professions
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (RN to BSN) Tuition: $3,225 Per Term + $175 Per Term Program Fee
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (Prelicensure) Tuition: $4,800 Per Term + $500 Per Term Program Fee*
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management Tuition: $3,225 Per Term + $175 Per Term Program Fee
Master of Science, Nursing (BSN to MSN) Tuition: $3,800 Per Term
Master of Science, Nursing (RN to MSN) Tuition: $3,225 Per Term + $175 Per Term Program Fee (Undergraduate
Portion), $3,800 Per Term (Graduate Portion)
Master of Health Leadership Tuition: $3,800 Per Term
All College of Health Professions programs, excluding the BSN (Prelicensure) and Master of Health Leadership
programs, require a one-time Health Professions Student Fee of $350. This fee covers the costs of any updates to
student learning resources and support services while the student completes their program.
*B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Fees:
● Program Fee: $500 (per term)
● ATI TEAS Exam: $115 (at PSI Testing Centers; cost differs at other sites)
● Uniforms: $146.30 (plus shipping, handling and applicable taxes)
● iTouch unit or handheld device that is compatible with Nursing Central Software (cost varies)
● Lab kit fees: $263.09
● Students may also be required to pay for doctor’s visit for a physical examination and immunizations to fulfill
specific admissions requirements.
● Drug Screen, Criminal Background Check, and Immunization Tracking System: $94 - Price includes one alias
search. There will be a separate charge for each additional alias search. Due to expenses associated with
accessing court documents, the fees for students in the following states will be as follows: MI ($10), NV ($12). All
fees are subject to change.
Teachers College
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,225 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
Graduate Programs with Supervised Field Experience Tuition: $3,240 per term + $300 Per Term Program Fee**
Other Graduate Programs Tuition: $3,240 Per Term***
**Includes M.A. Teaching, Post-Baccalaureate, Endorsement Preparation, M.S. Special Education, M.S. Educational
Leadership, and M.A. English Language Learning programs.
***Includes all M.A. Mathematics Education and M.A. Science Education programs, all M.Ed. programs, and the M.S.
Curriculum and Instruction program.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 26
Individuals pursuing a bachelor's or master's degree in science education will require a home science lab and be
assessed a one-time charge of $350 (billed separately along with the first term's tuition).
Tuition Payment and Financial Policies
WGU Financial Policy
Western Governors University is dedicated to providing the best possible education and service to our students. A
complete understanding of financial responsibilities is an essential element of a student’s education. The WGU Financial
Services office is committed to assisting all student account needs. However, students have the primary responsibility to
make sure their tuition is paid on time each term.
Payment is Required at the Beginning of Each Term
Tuition for the full term is due by the 1st day of each term. Financial clearance is due for new students on or before the
22nd of the month proceeding the first day of the first term. Acceptance of term registration confirms agreement to pay
tuition in full. For a small enrollment fee, WGU offers a payment plan for those who cannot pay in full by the required
date. To enroll in a payment plan, select the "Make or View Payments” link in the Financial Services section on the
Student Support tab of the student portal. Payment or payment plan participation is required by the first day of each new
term. Students in an active bankruptcy, or who have a prior payment plan default, are not eligible for a WGU payment
plan.
Payment Deadlines
Payments received or payment arrangements must be completed on the student portal by:
● New student with first term tuition - On the 22nd day of month prior to term start.
● Renewal term tuition - First day of the term.
Financial Aid
Students have the responsibility to apply for and submit all forms required by the Financial Aid office and be aware of
deadlines for submission. Application for financial aid is not a guarantee of funding. In the event students are approved
for financial aid and are under-funded or students become ineligible for financial aid funds they are responsible for the
financial obligation on their account. Regardless of the status of their financial aid file, it is the responsibility of students
to ensure that tuition and fees are paid by the appropriate deadline.
Funds are applied to the student accounts in the following order as needed:
● State grants
● Federal Pell Grant
● Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG)
● Scholarships
● Subsidized loans
● Unsubsidized loans
● PLUS loans
Payment Methods
WGU accepts cash, checks, and web checks/EFT at no additional cost to students. Credit/Debit cards (Visa,
MasterCard, Discover, and American Express) are also accepted, but a 2.75% card processing fee applies. WGU does
not accept post-dated checks. WGU will not hold any check for deposit past the date of the receipt of the check. WGU is
not responsible for bank fees associated with the deposit of said check. To protect students' financial records, WGU
does NOT accept payments over the phone, under any circumstance.
Refunds
Once eligibility for a refund is calculated, the Financial Services office processes tuition charges and refunds within 30
days, as applicable. Funds reimbursed to students are reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., tuition paid by
check is refunded via check, and tuition paid by card is refunded (less non-refundable convenience fee) to the card used
for payment. In the case of financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the appropriate
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 27
grant or loan program based on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this calculation,
students may owe WGU a portion of tuition and fees not covered.
All funding sources including scholarships, both internal and external, waivers, discounts and grants are subject to
Return of Title IV calculation. In the case of third party funds; i.e., employer contributions, government funding, military
payments, etc, WGU will first verify with the original payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. Students are
responsible for any portion of tuition and fees owed after refunds are given to all payees.
Note: For Missouri residents, the application fee is refundable if the applicant terminates the admission process by
notifying the Enrollment or Admissions Department within three business days of paying the application fee. The
resource fee is billed at the beginning of each term and is refundable if the student terminates enrollment within three
business days of the start of the term. After three business days, these fees are non-refundable.
Florida residents who enroll in the B.S. in Nursing program are eligible for the refund of an application fee payment ($65)
if the Enrollment Agreement is canceled within three days.
Billing and Account Statements
A WGU student account billing notice is generated each time a charge or a charge adjustment is applied to a student
account. Billing notices are delivered to myWGU student e-mail accounts and can be found by visiting the Student
Support tab in the student portal. Select Financial Services on the left, then click the "Make Payment" button. All notices
will be stored in the "MyBills" section. Monthly account statement notifications are delivered on approximately the 17th
day of each month. Notice of monthly account statements is delivered to myWGU student e-mail accounts.
Past Due Accounts
Tuition for the full term is due by the 1st day of each term. Any account not paid in full, awarded financial aid funding or
other third party guarantor, or enrolled in an authorized myPAYMENT PLAN is past due on the 2nd day of the term. Past
due accounts may be assessed a late fee and may be placed on financial hold for non-payment. Failure to complete
payment or payment arrangements with WGU may result in administrative withdrawal.
Automatic Enrollment Confirmation/Not Attending Cancellation for Renewal Term Students
Tuition for renewal terms is automatically charged on the first day of the term. Thus, if a student will not be attending a
subsequent term, it is necessary for the student to notify their program mentor by telephone or email prior to term
enrollment for the term. Once the student has completed term enrollment with the program mentor, the student will be
liable for charges incurred.
Final Term Students
Students in their final term may be eligible for part time enrollment if they do not have enough required units remaining
to be full-time. Prorated (part-time) students will have their tuition adjusted by the number of competency units attempted
within a term, not by time attended within a term. For an estimate of prorated tuition, please refer to the student
handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Tuition-Information-for-Part-Time-Enrollment/ta-p/107
Returned Checks
Payment of tuition or fees with a check that is subsequently returned as unpaid from the bank results in a returned
check fee. A student may not satisfy a returned check obligation with a personal check. After two returned checks, WGU
will no longer accept a personal check for payment on a student's account. All future payments must be made via credit
card (which will incur a 2.75% convenience fee) or money order. Failure to clear a returned check taken in payment for
tuition or fees results in administrative withdrawal from WGU. Once this action is taken, students cannot be reinstated
for the term, but will owe prorated portion of the charges for tuition in addition to other collection costs and charges
necessary for the collection of the returned check. A student may apply for re-enrollment for the following term when all
balances are resolved.
Delinquent Accounts
Failure to meet financial obligations of any kind to the university may result in a financial hold and suspension of future
services including enrollment for subsequent terms. In addition, delinquent accounts may be referred to a collection
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 28
agency. Students are responsible for additional late payment charges, interest, attorney's fees, other costs, and charges
necessary for the collection of any amount not paid when due.
Transcripts and Records Policy for Students with Unresolved Financial Obligations
Unresolved balances of any nature on a student's account will result in not releasing the following records: diplomas,
transfer of University competencies, and transcripts of University competencies. These records will not be released until
the owing balance is paid in full or the past due balance is resolved. When all financial obligations are resolved, students
are again eligible to receive transcripts and all university services.
Student Financial Aid Requirements
http://www.wgu.edu/tuition_financial_aid/financial_aid
WGU is approved by the U.S. Department of Education to offer federal student aid in most of our degree programs.
Because of our more affordable tuition, WGU students are able to graduate without large amounts of student debt to
repay. If students qualify for and accept federal student aid, it will cover most, if not all, direct education expenses.
Financial aid can be used for:
● Tuition and fees, including electronic learning materials
● Textbooks
● Technology
● Other educational expenses
To receive consideration for any federal student aid program, students must first file the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA) at https://fafsa.ed.gov. When students fill out the FAFSA, they are applying for aid for a specific
year; therefore, they will need to renew the FAFSA application each award year.
Most WGU students qualify for at least one type of federal aid. To be eligible for federal student aid (grants, loans, and
work-study funds), students must meet the following requirements established by the U.S. Department of Education:
● demonstrate financial need (for most programs);
● be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen;
● have a valid Social Security number (with the exception of students from the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau);
● be registered with Selective Service, if you’re a male (you must register between the ages of 18 and 25);
● be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a regular student in an eligible degree or certificate program;
● be enrolled at least half-time to be eligible for Direct Loan Program funds;
● maintain satisfactory academic progress in college or career school;
● sign the certification statement on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) stating that
● you are not in default on a federal student loan and do not owe money on a federal student grant and
● you will use federal student aid only for educational purposes; and
● show you’re qualified to obtain a college or career school education by
● having a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent such as a General Educational Development
(GED) certificate;
● completing a high school education in a homeschool setting approved under state law (or—if state law does
not require a homeschooled student to obtain a completion credential—completing a high school education
in a homeschool setting that qualifies as an exemption from compulsory attendance requirements under
state law); or
● enrolling in an eligible career pathway program and meeting one of the "ability-to-benefit" alternatives
described at https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/eligibility/basic-criteria#ability-to-benefit.
Satisfactory Academic Progress
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Federal regulations require that all students who receive federal student aid funds maintain satisfactory academic
progress (SAP). It is a measure of student progress toward the completion of a degree and is assessed by qualitative
(grade-based) and quantitative (time-based) measures. WGU evaluates these measures at the end of each completed
payment period or term in the student's academic program and at the time of withdrawal from the university.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 29
The university defines demonstrating a competency (a grade of "pass") as a grade equivalent to a “B” or better (3.0 on a
4-point scale). Students receive a mark of "pass" or "not passed" on their permanent academic record for any courses
for which they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment. A grade of "not passed" is counted as
competency units that are failed and are counted against SAP.
A quantitative measure is the completion of 66.67 percent of all competency units attempted. This percentage is
determined by dividing the number of competency units completed by the total number of units for which a student
enrolled cumulatively over the student's academic career at WGU. Completing at least 66.67 percent of all
competencies means the student is on track to complete the program within the required 150% of the published length
of the program measured in competency units.
Maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress
To maintain good standing for SAP, students must achieve an overall minimum cumulative pass rate of 66.67 percent
for all competency units attempted and completed. The Higher Education Act requires a specific qualitative review at the
end of the student's second academic year. Students enrolled in a program of more than two academic years must have
at least a “C” or its equivalent, or have an academic standing consistent with WGU’s graduation requirements. In
addition, a student is ineligible when it becomes mathematically impossible for him to complete his program within 150%
of the length of the program.
Transfer Credits from Other Institutions
Students who are granted transfer credits to WGU that count toward the student's current program of study are included
in both attempted and completed when measuring SAP.
Program Change
A change in program of study will not affect a student's SAP standing provided the new program is in the same
credential level as the old program. Students requesting re-entry into the university will return with the SAP status
calculated at the time of withdrawal. The University will include coursework taken by the student for enrollment in other
majors or programs when calculating cumulative SAP. However, if the credential level of the new program is different
from the old program (e.g. Bachelor's degree program into Master's degree program or vice versa), the student will
begin as a first term student with a new SAP history. For more information on program changes and stacked degree and
credential programs, please refer to the student handbook.
Financial Aid Warning
Students who fail to maintain SAP are placed on "warning" and may be terminated from federal financial aid eligibility
according to the following criteria:
First Term Students*
● First term students who finish their first term with a cumulative SAP of less than 50% are automatically terminated
from federal financial aid.
● First term students who complete at least 50% of attempted competency units, but fail to complete the 66.67%
required for good standing for SAP are placed on warning for the following term and remain eligible for financial
aid.
*Note: First term students include WGU graduates in the first term of an additional degree.
Continuing Students**
● Continuing students who begin a term in good standing whose cumulative SAP falls below 66.67% but not lower
than 50% are placed on warning for the following term and remain eligible for financial aid.
● Continuing students who begin a term in good standing whose cumulative SAP falls below 50% are automatically
terminated from financial aid without a warning term.
● Students in a warning term who achieve a cumulative completion rate of at least a 66.67% are returned to good
academic standing.
● Students in a warning term who end the warning term with a cumulative completion rate below 66.67% SAP are
terminated from financial aid eligibility.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 30
**Note: Continuing students are those that are enrolled beyond the first term.
Students who are terminated from financial aid eligibility may continue their studies at WGU but are required to self-pay
and make payment arrangements through the Student Accounts office.
In the case of extenuating circumstances, students may appeal their termination status to the Financial Aid Appeal
Committee. Please refer to the student handbook for instructions regarding financial aid termination and appeal,
financial aid probation, and financial aid reinstatement.
Student Notification
The university notifies students of the results of any SAP evaluation affecting the eligibility for FSA funds for the entire
payment period.
Scholarship and Grant Recipients
Most scholarships and grants do not allow for a warning term. Failure to meet SAP in any given term can result in
termination of scholarship or grant funds. Please refer to the scholarship or grant materials or contact the scholarship
department at scholarships@wgu.edu for additional information.
Scholarships
Scholarship awards issued by Western Governors University are financial awards provided to students to help them
meet a portion of their tuition costs. Awards are limited to the amount of the scholarship, and depending on the amount,
the scholarship may or may not cover all tuition and fees. Students are responsible for paying any tuition charges not
covered by their scholarship. Unused scholarship monies will not be refunded to students.
Scholarship terms - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Scholarship-Terms-and-Conditions/ta-p/67
Scholarship list - http://www.wgu.edu/tuition_financial_aid/scholarships
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 31
Academic Policies
Credit Transfer Guidelines
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers.html
WGU does not grant credit for prior training or experience. However, students who enter with significant experience in
their field of study may be able to pass some of the required WGU assessments on an accelerated schedule. Transfer
guidelines are described below in excerpts from the WGU website.
General Transfer Guidelines
● For undergraduate programs, a personal evaluation of transcripts from previously attended institutions will be
needed to determine whether credits will be able to clear any degree requirements.
● WGU does not accept transfer credit at the graduate (master’s) level. Transcripts are still required for proof of
completion of a bachelor’s degree.
● WGU will not complete unofficial transcript evaluations. Speaking to an Enrollment Counselor will allow students
to get a general idea of what might be able to transfer, but students will be required to submit official copies of
their transcripts for an official evaluation.
● To have an official transcript evaluation completed, students will need to complete the online application form and
pay the application fee.
Completed Courses or a Degree
● If students hold an Associate of Arts (AA), Associate of Science (AS), or Associate of Applied Science (AAS) from
an institution that is recognized as nationally or regionally accredited by the U.S. Department of Education, they
should clear most of the lower-division general education requirements for a bachelor’s degree in business or
information technology. For the Health Professions and Teachers College programs, a course-by-course
evaluation is typically required for college credit transfer.
● If students earned an A.A.S. (or other applied associate degree), they may be able to clear a significant portion of
WGU’s lower-division degree requirements.
● If students have completed college courses but not earned a degree of any type, they may also be able to clear
some degree requirements through a course-by-course transcript evaluation.
Transferring from a Community College
WGU maintains great relations with community colleges throughout the United States. Students transferring from a U.S.
community college can expect a comprehensive transfer policy. Information about community college transfers is
available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/community-college.html and https://partners.wgu.edu.
Transcripts
The Transcripts Department must receive official transcripts by the 1st of the month prior to the intended start date of the
program. It is a student’s obligation to request official transcripts from the institutions previously attended. WGU requests
that students order transcripts as soon as possible. Transcripts should be mailed directly from the sending institution to
the following address:
Western Governors University
ATTN: Transcripts Department
4001 South 700 East, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/transcript-request.html
Other Transfer Guidelines
Students may transfer up to 75% of their program requirements through course-by-course evaluation of previous college
level coursework, industry approved certifications, or though presenting previously completed degrees. Not all programs
allow for the maximum percentage of transfer credit so the percentage of eligible transfer credit may differ between
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 32
programs and colleges. All programs require a minimum of 25% of the coursework to be completed at, and with, WGU.
For specific program transfer guidelines please see https://partners.wgu.edu/transferguidelines.
Transfer Credit for Military Experience/Training in Prelicensure Nursing - California students please see the California
BSRN Admissions and Policy Guide for more information - https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/state-college-admissions-
requirements.html
Transferring from WGU
WGU students who may be interested in transferring to another institution, either before or after completing their studies
at WGU, should keep in mind the following points:
● All institutions reserve the right to determine their own transfer policies, and not all academic work completed at
one institution may transfer to another.
● Students should check the transfer policies at the institution or institutions they are considering by consulting with
the admissions or registrar office at those institution(s).
● Students who transfer should request that the WGU registrar send an official transcript of their WGU transfer
credits and academic work to the institution(s) where they are applying for admission.
● The WGU transcript will note subject areas (domains) that were successfully completed. WGU transfer credits and
equivalencies for the completed domains will be listed.
Term Registration and Enrollment
WGU starts a new term on the first day of every month and the duration is six calendar months in length. Students may
only be enrolled in a single term and are considered enrolled and active once term enrollment has been established.
Students register prior to a term by working with their program mentor to set a scenario of courses to be completed.
Students then accept enrollment for the term on or after the first day of the new term. The term enrollment process is
important because students are agreeing to pay tuition in full, complete the courses by the end of the term, and adhere
to the communication protocol with their program mentor. Term enrollment must be completed no later than the 10th day
of the start of the term for continuing students and the 20th day of the start of the term for new students. Once term
enrollment is established, students are considered enrolled for the term and are responsible for tuition charges. Once
students have enrolled in a term, they are committed to the courses and changes to enrollment will not be processed.
Students who do not complete registration and enrollment for the new term are administratively withdrawn from the
university.
Working Ahead or Accelerating Courses
Students may accelerate their studies by adding additional courses from their active program to the term once they have
successfully completed all term requirements (original term enrollment). Students who choose to add additional courses
to a term should discuss course acceleration in detail with their program mentor, because accelerated courses not
passed before the end of the term will receive a mark of Not Passed on the student's academic transcript and the
courses will count against satisfactory academic progress.
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Marks of Not Passed
Students are responsible for making sure they complete all courses for which they are enrolled in a term. A mark of Not
Passed becomes part of the permanent academic record and transcript for all enrolled courses that are not attempted,
not completed and not passed. A student’s academic history will not be altered due to, but not limited to, changes in
program or course updates. Any changes or updates to the degree plan due to a program change or course change
does not negate the student’s responsibility to complete all courses in term enrollment. Courses transcripted as Not
Passed will not be altered should a student decide to pursue a program change or course update. Some academic
changes may result in a permanent unresolved not passed on a student’s academic history and WGU transcript.
Passing Assessments before Enrolling in a Term
Students are responsible for making sure they complete all course assessments for which they have registered and
enrolled in a term. Students who continue to work on a course(s) after a new term begins, and earn a Pass on that
course, must enroll in that same course in the new term, including other courses adding up to full-time registration (12
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 33
competency units at the undergraduate level and 8 competency units at the graduate level). Students who seek to
withdraw or go on term break will have completed course(s) and passed course assessment(s) removed from their
record. Further, all submissions in Taskstream made after beginning of the new term will be removed. Students
returning from term break, or those granted readmission to the university, must repeat the course(s) and will be held to
passing current course requirements.
Passing Vendor Assessments/Certifications not Enrolled in Current Term
Students who attempt and pass a course with a vendor assessment(s)/certification(s) without enrolling in that course in
the term shall receive the grade of ‘Requirement Satisfied’ (RS). Students who attempt a course-related vendor
assessment(s)/certification(s), or take any other third-party assessment (i.e. PRAXIS) without course enrollment and/or
referring through WGU’s assessment scheduling procedures will not have the cost of the exam/voucher(s) paid nor
reimbursed by WGU.
Attendance Policy
WGU does not have an institutional attendance policy. Progress is governed not by attending a class, but by
successfully completing assessments that demonstrate mastery of the required competencies. Students engage in a
variety of learning resources to build competency and prepare for the assessments. In most cases, these learning
materials are independent learning resources such as textbooks, e-learning modules, study guides, simulations, virtual
labs, and tutorials, none of which require attendance. Therefore, interruption for unsatisfactory attendance and
readmission conditions are not relevant.
Online learning "WGU style" is extraordinarily flexible, even compared to other online universities. In most respects, the
programs are personalized to students' individual schedules, providing the flexibility students need to be successful in all
areas of life, not just in school. In fact, many of our graduates have commented on how nice it was to work their
education around their jobs and family, not the other way around.
Communication Protocol
WGU programs are designed for regular interaction between a student and his or her Program Mentor throughout a
term. Regular, course-focused communication with the Course Instructor throughout a course is also expected.
Accordingly:
● During the first term, a student meets with their Program Mentor by phone on a recurring basis to discuss program
and course content, pacing, and other academic needs, with an overarching focus on developing consistent
engagement with learning resources, Course Instructors, and
● A student who demonstrates consistent engagement in the first term (by completing all enrolled CUs, or steady
progress toward course completion through consistent learning resource and faculty interactions) will earn more
flexibility in future communication with their Program Mentor. The frequency and format (e.g., email, chat, or other
media) of these communications should be mutually agreed upon by the student and their Program Mentor and
can be adjusted as needed to help the student maintain OTP and consistent academic activity.
● Students who fail to demonstrate consistent engagement after the first term will collaborate with their Program
Mentor to develop an individual plan designed to promote and sustain academic progress. Minimally, this plan will
include recurring phone communication with the Program Mentor to develop study and time-management
strategies and the identification of academic milestones and is expected to include one-to-one work with a Course
Instructor for content mastery.
Students are entitled and encouraged to contact Program Mentors and Course Instructors as often as needed and can
expect that any interaction with these faculty members will focus on mastery of course content, program content and
academic progress. Students should also expect to be contacted by Program Mentors and Course Instructors to provide
instruction, support and guidance throughout a term and course.
It is expected that students in their first term will meet with Program Mentors at least once a week. Students in their
second term meet every other week, at a minimum.
If a student misses a scheduled call, the Program Mentor will immediately send an email to the student to reschedule
the appointment. Students who fail to respond to this email or other outreach within 14 days of their last phone contact
with Faculty will be required to meet with their Program Mentor to develop a plan for the immediate resumption of their
studies, including Program Mentor interactions. A student who fails to respond to their Program Mentor within 20 days,
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 34
or who repeatedly fails to observe the requirements of this policy, may be administratively withdrawn from the university.
This policy applies with equal force to phone calls, messages and other contacts which require a student response
made by a Program Mentor outside of a scheduled interaction, or by a Course Instructor.
Academic Progress
Western Governors University Promise: We help our students achieve their dreams for a degree and career success by
providing a personal, flexible, and affordable education based upon real-world competencies.
WGU takes an active interest in students' progress through their academic programs and requires students to make
measurable advancement toward completion of their degree program each term. With this in mind, the university has
established the following policies:
On-Time Progress (OTP): Students completing a minimum of twelve (12) competency units (CUs) at the undergraduate
level, and eight (8) competency units at the graduate level, are considered to be making on-time progress toward
graduation.
Lack of Progress: Within a term, undergraduate students who complete less than three (3) competency units, and
graduate students who complete less than two (2) competency units, will be administratively withdrawn from the
university at the end of the term. Additionally, students who are readmitted to the university and fail to complete the
minimum requirements described above will be administratively withdrawn at the end of the term and will not be eligible
for readmission.
A student may appeal an administrative withdrawal for lack of academic progress by writing to the Registrar’s office
records@wgu.edu, clearly stating the reasons they failed to make academic progress, and what they will do to ensure
success if allowed to re-enroll. A student who is administratively withdrawn for lack of academic progress may also
appeal for readmission after six (6) months from the date of withdrawal. Readmission is not guaranteed and is
determined according to readmission standards.
Academic Activity Policy
In addition to the requirements of the Academic Progress policy, students are expected to demonstrate consistent
engagement with their studies throughout each academic term. Activities demonstrating academic engagement include,
but are not limited to:
● Discussion of course content with a Course Instructor
● Live academic conversation with a Program Mentor
● Completing pre-assessments
● Completing objective assessments
● Submitting a performance assessment task for evaluation
● Attending a faculty-led live event, such as a webinar
● Use of course learning resources
● Viewing recorded faculty-led live events
● Viewing a course-related academic video
Students who are not academically engaged for a period of 14 days will be required to meet with their Program Mentor
to develop a plan for the immediate resumption of their studies, to include reengagement with course learning resources
and/or meeting with a Course Instructor. Students who demonstrate 28 days of inactivity will be subject to administrative
withdrawal. An academically inactive student will be notified prior to withdrawal.
Administrative Withdrawal - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Withdrawal-Administrative/ta-p/84
First-Term Critical Actions
First-Term Critical Actions are academic activities which are highly correlated with student success in the first-term (and
each successive term). New students accordingly, are required to engage in at least one of the following academic
activities in at least one course within 45 days of beginning their first term:
● Completion of a preassessment
● Completion of an Objective Assessment
● Submission of a Performance Assessment Task
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 35
Students who do not complete one of these activities within the first 45 days of their first term will be administratively
withdrawn after the 45th day and will receive a pro-rated tuition refund in accordance with WGU’s Refund Policy.
A first-term student administratively withdrawn under this policy is done so without transcript notation, and students
seeking to continue at WGU will be required to reapply for admission.
WGU Grading System
WGU Transcripts include five possible marks:
● Pass: Certifies successful completion of a course of study. A student has demonstrated required competencies by
passing the final assessment with a grade equivalent of B or better or 3.00 grade points on a 4.00 scale.
● Not Passed: Indicates that a student failed to complete a course of study in the time allotted. To meet program
requirements, the student generally re-enrolls for the course of study in a subsequent term.
● Requirement Satisfied: Recognizes that a student has satisfied the requirements of a course of study through
alternate coursework that may not be directly transferred.
● Transfer: Signifies that a student has completed equivalent work at another regionally or nationally accredited
institution.
● Withdrawn*: Represents that the student was withdrawn from the university or course before term completion.
The university does not calculate a grade point average (GPA).
One competency unit is the equivalent of one semester hour credit of learning in traditional grading systems.
Grades are transcribed upon completion of a course of study. A course(s) of study in progress will not appear on the
transcript until the end of a term.
*Note: Students receive a grade of Pass, Not Passed, or Withdrawn on their permanent academic record and transcript
for any course(s) of study for which they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment. An earned
Pass or Not Passed is not replaced with a grade of Withdrawn. Grades of Not Passed and Withdrawn are counted as
units not completed and, as such, are counted against satisfactory academic progress.
Degree Plan
The degree plan, accessed via the my.wgu.edu student portal, serves as a student's blueprint of program requirements
(often called the standard path) and associated learning resources. The degree plan details all of a student's program
requirements and allows students and program mentors to work together in planning the path to graduation. The degree
plan displays the course details (including status, study plan, competencies covered, competency units, and
assessment/preassessment information) and start and end dates. Students access learning resources and make
requests to schedule objective assessments or begin performance assessments inside a course on their degree plan.
The standard path through a student's degree plan may be adjusted by the student and program mentor to meet the
student's individual needs during term enrollment. WGU starts a new term on the first day of every month of the year
and the duration is six calendar months in length. Students may only be enrolled in a single term, but can re-enroll into a
new term at the end of the six months. Term enrollment must take place within the first 10 days of the start of a new
term. Students must be enrolled at least full time (12 competency units for undergraduate students and 8 for graduate
students). Once term enrollment is complete courses may not be removed. Students, in consultation with their program
mentor, may add additional courses to the term through the end of the fifth month of the term. Courses will not be added
until students have completed the original enrolled courses and then courses may be added one at a time if time in the
term allots. Because students must complete all courses for which they are enrolled, they should be sure they are
prepared to take and pass all the courses for which they enroll. Students who enroll for, and either do not attempt or fail,
a course receive a mark of Not Passed on their academic transcript.
Students who fail to establish term enrollment within the first 10 days of the new term or who cease all activity are
deemed inactive and are administratively withdrawn from the university.
The degree plan is the map to the assessments students need to complete and the learning resources they can use to
prepare. The degree plan includes:
● Details of the term
● Assessment type, status, and associated learning resources
● Access to pre-assessments
● Required completion dates
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 36
All of the specifics will be described in detail by the student's program mentor and established during the first few weeks
of their program.
More information on degree plans - https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/degree-plan.html
More information on assessments - https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/assessments.html
Courses of Study
The degree plan lists the courses of study (assessments) required to complete an academic program. A course of study
is comprised of five important aspects:
● Defined competencies students are required to demonstrate
● Learning resources needed to gain the competencies
● Program mentor and course instructor guidance during the development of the competencies
● Participation in a learning community centered on the competencies
● The assessments of the competencies
Each course of study is assigned a number of competency units. Competency units are equivalent to one semester
credit of learning.
Term Enrollment
Term enrollment is the process of choosing courses and verifying enrollment for the term of study. During term
enrollment, students and their program mentor will map out which assessments to complete and the time frame in which
to do so by established start and end dates. Program mentors will schedule at least the minimum number of competency
units required for full-time enrollment (12 units for undergraduate students, 8 units for graduate students). On-time
progress is based on how term enrollment is set each term.
Start and End Dates
To help students plan their progress through the term and to set a study schedule and calendar, they along with their
program mentor will set start and end dates for each course. With these dates, students can plan their preparation and
see how to accelerate or where to spend more time in getting ready to demonstrate competency in an assessment area.
Computer Requirements
Students should keep the following requirements in mind when selecting a computer to use during their program at
WGU. Systems purchased within the past two years will typically come with the following recommended features.
Students can check technical readiness of their computer system by using the WGU System Check tool to ensure they
meet university requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/computer_requirements
To use WGU's online systems, a student must have the following:
Hardware Requirements
● 2 GHz processor or faster
● High-speed internet connection of 1.5 Mb/s or better
● 4 GB RAM or greater
● Built-in or external speakers
● USB 2.0 port or adaptor
● Supported Operating Systems - Windows 7 or higher, MacOS 10.11 or higher
● Unsupported Operating Systems - Chrome OS, Linux, Unix
Note: Online Proctored Assessments will require 3 Mb/s internet connection. Satellite internet users should review the
Satellite Internet section below for more information.
Software Requirements
● Microsoft Office 2016 or 365
● WGU recommends that students have an up-to-date anti-virus program
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 37
Supported Browsers
● Google Chrome
● Mozilla Firefox
● Apple Safari
Multimedia Apps and Plugins
● Adobe Reader or PDF reader of choice
● Adobe Flash/Shockwave
● Adobe AIR
● Java 7 or higher
Note: WGU strongly encourages up-to-date browser versions which incorporates security fixes and newer technologies,
resulting in a better user experience.
Additional Software: WGU students are required to use a number of third-party learning resources. System requirements
for these resources vary widely by program and assessment and may differ greatly from those listed above. Information
Technology students, in particular, may need to install specific applications that require a more powerful computer or a
specific operating system. If a student is concerned that their computer may not meet the minimum requirements for any
third-party learning resource or specific applications in the degree program, please contact Student Services, Learning
Resources or the IT Service Desk for more information. https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/About-WGU/Contact-WGU/ta-p/148
Satellite Internet: WGU understands that in some cases satellite internet is a student’s only option. Certain learning
resources such as MyNursingLab and Soomo have experienced issues when being accessed from these types of
internet connections. Instances have been found where students are using providers such as Excede or DISH Network.
In order to assist students with this issue, WGU suggests and offers the following:
● Purchase a VPN connection. This allows you to remotely access resources and work around satellite Internet
conflicts. WGU does not endorse any specific VPN provider. Perform an Internet search for VPN service providers
and setup this service in the way that works best for you. Please make sure to educate yourself about VPN
connections if you have security concerns etc.
● WGU will reimburse students for the cost of this service for up to six months, up to $60 of service (1 term = $60).
● If VPN service is required for more than six months, additional reimbursement requests will be reviewed and
determined on a case-by-case basis by Academic Services leadership.
Student Accessibility Services
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Services/Policies-and-Procedures-for-Students-with-Disabilities/ta-p/151
Western Governors University ("WGU") is committed to providing equal access to its academic programs to all qualified
students. The University’s Student Accessibility Services supports this mission by providing support, resources,
advocacy, collaboration, and academic accommodations that conform to federal and state statutes and regulations to
WGU students and prospective students.
WGU complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other
applicable disability discrimination laws. WGU is committed to providing reasonable accommodation(s) to qualified
disabled applicants and learners in WGU programs and activities as required by applicable law.
The determination of reasonable accommodation(s) for qualified students with disabilities, and compliance with the ADA
and the Rehabilitation Act, are the responsibility of WGU Student Accessibility Services. Student Accessibility Services
is the principal point of contact for all students with disability questions or concerns.
WGU encourages current and prospective students needing accommodation(s) and/or resources to contact Student
Accessibility Services for assistance. Student Accessibility Services will respond to requests for accommodation(s) in
accordance with the Policies and Procedures for Students with Disabilities published in the online student handbook.
WGU complies with applicable laws concerning the confidentiality of disability-related health information and it is
committed to ensuring that all information regarding student health remains appropriately confidential; only Student
Accessibility Services has access to student health information. Student Accessibility Services retains student health
and accommodation information for the length of a student’s enrollment at WGU. If a student wishes to have a record
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 38
deleted during his or her enrollment, he or she must send a written request to Student Accessibility Services. Students
may authorize the release of disability information to people or organizations outside of WGU. Before providing such
authorization, students should understand the nature of the information to be released and the purpose. WGU may
infrequently be required by law to disclose disability information without student consent.
Academic Authenticity
Students are provided the following policy in the student handbook regarding the authenticity of their work:
WGU holds, as a core value, that respect for ideas and intellectual property rights is a critical value in academic
communities. All members of the university community share responsibility in ensuring that the authentic expression of
those ideas is observed.
“Academic Authenticity” means the ethical completion of WGU coursework. Examples include appropriately attributing
text, pictures, tables and graphs used in coursework to the creators, and each student completing his/her own
coursework. Academic Authenticity is fundamental to the educational process at WGU.
The following policies apply to all WGU students and assessments regardless of location, and every WGU student is
expected to uphold these Academic Authenticity rules:
Intellectual Property
● Students may not use any information found, requested, or purchased on the Internet (or elsewhere) that may
include WGU assessment materials or responses to those materials (i.e., answers to assessment questions or
projects completed by someone else).
● Similarly, students may not create and/or transmit responses to assessments or projects, as those responses may
potentially be submitted to WGU or another institution by someone else.
● Students may not copy, record, or disclose WGU assessment or project material to anyone else. This includes
copying for personal use and disclosure on websites, blogs, and other social media.
● Any previously completed Capstone Project from another WGU degree or another institution is not permitted to be
used for the creation and submission of the Capstone Project for the degree in which the student is currently
enrolled.
● Students may consent to have their capstone work archived for restricted view by other students and alumni. They
may also use and repurpose their capstone and other performance tasks for use when they graduate as an
electronic portfolio in furtherance of the academic or professional careers with care not to violate B and C above.
Assessments
A. General
● Unless directed by official WGU course instructions to work with other students, all assessments and projects
must be the student’s own individual work. Students are not allowed to engage in unauthorized collaborative
efforts with, or obtain assistance from, others at any point in the research, creation, completion, submission, or
revision of assessments.
● Students shall not falsify or deliberately misrepresent information submitted to meet the requirement of any
assessment.
B. Objective Assessment
● When taking a proctored WGU assessment, the student may not access any device or material not specifically
approved in advance, nor communicate with anyone except the proctor, this includes reading the questions aloud.
● All audio and video equipment must be in working order, and the student is required to remain in the view of the
proctor at all times.
C. Performance Assessment
● If students use material from any source, an appropriately formatted citation must be provided. To use the work of
another without proper citation is plagiarism and may lead to sanctions, including suspension or expulsion from
the university.
● All assessments and projects submitted by any WGU student will be evaluated for compliance with these rules. All
written work will be checked by WGU Evaluation Faculty, utilizing Turnitin.com or Unicheck, for evidence of
plagiarism. To protect each student’s identity, students are encouraged to remove all personal information, such
as phone numbers and addresses, from each assessment or project. The plagiarism checker will store a copy of
all work submitted to prevent its use by other students.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 39
The Code of Student Conduct defines violations of this policy as "cheating" subject to sanctions up to and including
expulsion from the university. Student access to assessment scheduling or task submission may be locked while an
investigation of alleged violations of this policy is underway.
Code of Student Conduct
As stated in the WGU Student Handbook:
PREAMBLE
This Western Governors University (WGU) Code of Student Conduct is premised on the belief that respect for
individuals, ideas, and the authenticity of student work are all critical to a thriving academic community. Accordingly,
WGU holds that all members of the WGU community have a shared responsibility for ethical, responsible, and respectful
behavior and should comply in every respect with all applicable laws in addition to the rules WGU has set forth in this
Code of Student Conduct.
ARTICLE I: DEFINITIONS
1. The term “WGU” means Western Governors University.
2. The term “student” includes all persons in all locations taking courses at WGU either full time or part time,
pursuing undergraduate, graduate, or professional studies. Persons who withdraw after allegedly violating the
Student Code, those who are not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a continuing relationship
with WGU or those who have been notified of their acceptance for admission are considered “students”.
3. The term “faculty member” means any person hired by WGU to conduct learning activities or who is otherwise
considered by WGU to be a member of its faculty.
4. The term “WGU official” includes any person employed by WGU performing assigned administrative or
professional responsibilities.
5. The term “member of the WGU community” includes any person who is a student, alumni, faculty member,
WGU official and any other person employed by WGU including proctors, graders, coaches, and clinical
supervisors.
6. The term “WGU premises” includes all land, buildings, facilities, portals, communities, and other property,
whether online or physical, in the possession of or owned, used, or controlled by WGU.
7. The term “Student Conduct Board” means any person or persons authorized by the Senior Manager of
Student Rights and Responsibilities to determine whether a student has violated the Student Code and to decide
sanctions that may be imposed when a rules violation has been committed. The chair, or co-chairs, of the
Student Conduct Board shall be appointed by the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
8. The term “Student Conduct Administrator” means a WGU official authorized on a case by case basis by the
Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities to investigate complaints, to advise the Student Conduct
Board, and to carry out sanctions imposed upon any student(s) found by the Student Conduct Board to have
violated the Student Code.
9. The term “Appellate Board” means any person or persons authorized by the Senior Manager of Student Rights
and Responsibilities to consider an appeal from the Student Conduct Board’s determination as to whether a
student has violated the Student Code or from the sanctions imposed by the Student Conduct Administrator.
10. The term “shall” is used in the imperative sense.
11. The term “may” is used in the permissive sense.
12. The Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities is that person designated by WGU’s President to be
responsible for the administration of the Student Code.
13. The term “policy” means the written regulations of WGU as found in, but not limited to the WGU Student
Handbook including this Student Code of Conduct and any student handbook specific to a WGU degree
program. All WGU policy is made continuously available to students on the university’s website.
14. The term “cheating” includes, but is not limited to: (1) using any information found, requested or purchased on
the Internet (or elsewhere) containing WGU assessment materials or responses to those materials (i.e., answers
to exam questions or projects responses created by someone else); (2) creating or transmitting responses to
WGU assessments or projects if you have reason to know those responses may be submitted to WGU by
someone else; (3) copying, recording and disclosing WGU assessment or project material for others’ use; (4)
accessing any device or materials not specifically approved in advance, or communicating with anyone except
the proctor when taking a proctored WGU assessment; and (5) working with others on assessments or projects
unless specifically directed by WGU; and (6) representing the work of others as your own without proper citation.
15. The term “plagiarism” includes, but is not limited to, the use, by paraphrase or direct quotation, of the
published or unpublished work of another person without full and clear acknowledgment. It also includes the
unacknowledged use of materials prepared by another person or agency engaged in the selling of term papers
or other academic materials.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 40
16. The term “harassment” means the use of words, gestures, imagery, and other communication that creates a
hostile and intimidating environment to the degree that other members of the WGU community would choose not
to participate in communications, programs, or activities.
17. The term “identity misrepresentation” means the use of false, stolen or borrowed identification materials (e.g.,
driver’s license) to obtain: i) admission to WGU, ii) access to student financial aid, or iii) access to WGU
programs, assessments and other activities.
18. The term “Complainant” means any person who submits a charge alleging that a student violated this Student
Code. When a student believes that s/he has been a victim of another student’s misconduct, the student who
believes s/he has been a victim will have the same rights under this Student Code as are provided to the
Complainant, even if another member of the WGU community submitted the charge itself.
19. The term “Accused Student” means any student accused of violating this Student Code.
20. The term “Advisor” includes any member of the WGU community but the Advisor cannot be acting as an
attorney.
21. “Education Records” are broadly defined to include all records directly related to a student and are protected
from disclosure under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Disciplinary Records and
Academic Records are considered to be Education Records and as a result are kept confidential in accordance
with this law.
22. The “Disciplinary Record” includes a statement of charges, summary of information considered by or
presented to the Code of Conduct Board, findings or sanctions, records of appeals, and rationale for the
decisions.
23. The “Academic Record” is defined as information relating to a student’s academic performance including
transcripts, narrative notes of the student’s academic progress as documented by the student’s program
mentor(s) and course instructor(s), assessment and evaluation results, external exam scores, and results of any
appeals filed by the student.
24. The term “hazing” means any action or situation that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or
physical health or safety of a student for purposes, including, but not limited to, the purpose of initiation or
admission into or affiliation with any organization operating under the sanction of a postsecondary institution;
includes, but is not limited to pressuring or coercing the student into violating state or federal law; any brutality of
a physical nature, such as whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the elements, forced
consumption of any food, liquor, drug, or other substance, or other forced physical activity that which could
adversely affect the physical health or safety of the student; any activity that which would subject the student to
extreme mental stress, such as sleep deprivation, forced exclusion from social contact, forced conduct that
which could result in extreme embarrassment; other forced activity that which could adversely affect the mental
health or dignity of the student. Hazing does not include customary athletic events or other similar contests or
competitions or any activity or conduct that furthers a legal and legitimate objective.
ARTICLE II: STUDENT CODE AUTHORITY
1. The Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities shall determine the composition of the Student
Conduct Board and Appellate Boards and determine which Student Conduct Board, Student Conduct
Administrator and Appellate Board shall be authorized to hear each matter.
2. The Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities shall develop policies for the administration of the
student conduct system and procedural rules for the conduct of Student Conduct Board Hearings that are not
inconsistent with provisions of the Student Code.
3. Decisions made by the Student Conduct Board and/or Student Conduct Administrator designated by the Senior
Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities shall be final, pending the normal appeal process.
ARTICLE III: JURISDICTION OF WGU STUDENT CODE
WGU Student Code of Conduct shall apply to conduct that adversely affects the WGU Community and/or the pursuit of
its objectives. Each student shall be responsible for his/her conduct from the time of application for admission through
the actual awarding of a degree, even though conduct may occur before courses begin or after courses end, during
periods between terms of actual enrollment, and conduct that is not discovered until after a degree is awarded. The
Student Code shall apply to a student’s conduct even if the student withdraws from school while a disciplinary matter is
pending.
ARTICLE IV: DISCRIMINATION, HARASSMENT, SEXUAL MISCONDUCT, STALKING AND RETALIATION
In addition to the Code of Student Conduct, all students at WGU are also subject to the University’s Discrimination,
Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Stalking and Retaliation Policy and accompanying Discrimination Grievance
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 41
Procedures which are separate from the Student Conduct Code standards and procedures. The University’s
Discrimination and Harassment policy covers behaviors related to discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault,
inducing incapacitation for sexual purposes, sexual exploitation, relationship violence, stalking, and retaliation.
In cases where the provisions in the Student Conduct Code and the provisions in the Discrimination and Harassment
policy and accompanying Discrimination Grievance Procedures are different or inconsistent, the Discrimination and
Harassment policy and Discrimination Grievance Procedures supersede. Therefore, all students are expected read the
Discrimination and Harassment policy and Discrimination Grievance Procedures, as well as the Code of Student
Conduct, to gain a thorough understanding of the expectations and procedures set forth in both processes and the
differences between the two.
When a student has been found in violation of the Discrimination and Harassment policy, the Title IX Coordinator is
charged with imposing disciplinary sanctions. Possible sanctions that may be applied are the same as those described
in the Student Conduct Code. Disciplinary records for Discrimination and Harassment violations are maintained in the
same manner as other disciplinary records under the Student Conduct Code.
ARTICLE V: PROSCRIBED CONDUCT
A. Conduct—Rules and Regulations
Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following misconduct is subject to the
disciplinary sanctions outlined in Article VI:
1. Acts of dishonesty, including but not limited to the following (See Academic Authenticity):
a. Cheating, plagiarism, or other forms of academic dishonesty.
b. Identity misrepresentation.
c. Furnishing false information to any WGU official, faculty member, or office.
d. Forgery, alteration, or misuse of any WGU document, record, or instrument of identification.
2. Disruption or obstruction of advising, facilitation, instruction, research, administration, disciplinary proceedings or
other WGU activities.
3. Unprofessional conduct including harassment, threatening, bullying or verbal abuse of any member of the WGU
community by any means (conduct, speech, written notes, electronic mail, etc.). This includes, but is not limited
to, the use of threats, profanity, and demeaning or intimidating comments.
4. Physical abuse, threats of physical abuse, and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or
safety of any person.
5. Illegal use, possession or distribution of alcohol or any controlled substance on university premises or at
university sponsored events.
6. Attempted or actual theft of and/or damage to property of WGU or property of a member of the WGU
community.
7. Failure to comply with directions of WGU officials or law enforcement officers acting in performance of their
duties and/or failure to identify oneself to these persons when requested to do so.
8. Failure to conform to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the Teachers College Code of Ethics,
Professional Behaviors and Dispositions, the CHP Code of Professional Conduct and Dispositions, the CHP
Nursing Code of Professional Conduct and Dispositions, and similar standards of professional conduct
associated with other WGU field experience programs.
9. Violation of any WGU policy.
10. Violation of any federal, state or local law.
11. Illegal or unauthorized possession of firearms, explosives, other weapons, or dangerous chemicals on WGU
premises or use of any such item, even if legally possessed, in a manner that harms, threatens or causes fear to
others.
12. Theft, abuse or misuse of WGU computing, information and communication systems (“WGU systems”) and/or
protected WGU information, files and resources (“WGU resources”) including but not limited to:
a. Unauthorized entry into WGU resources to use, read, or change the contents, or for any other purpose.
b. Unauthorized transfer of WGU resources.
c. Use of another individual’s user name and/or password.
d. Use of WGU systems to interfere with the work of another member of the WGU community.
e. Use of WGU systems to send obscene or harassing messages.
f. Interfering with the normal operation of WGU systems and WGU resources.
g. Use of WGU resources in violation of WGU’s Student License Agreement for use of learning resources.
h. Any violation of the WGU Systems Use Policy.
i. Unauthorized use of WGU systems and WGU resources to obtain or disclose the personal details of another
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 42
member of the WGU community.
j. Tampering with communications.
13. Abuse of the Student Conduct System, including but not limited to:
a. Failure to obey a notice from the Student Conduct Board or WGU official to appear for a meeting or hearing
as part of the Student Conduct System.
b. Falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation of information before Student Conduct Board.
c. Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a Student Conduct Board proceeding.
d. Institution of a student conduct code proceeding in bad faith.
e. Attempting to discourage an individual’s proper participating in, or use of, the student conduct system.
f. Attempting to influence the impartiality of a member of the Student Conduct Board prior to, and/or during the
course of, the Student Conduct Board proceeding.
g. Harassment (verbal or physical) and/or intimidation of a member of the Student Conduct Board prior to,
during, and/or after a student conduct code proceeding.
h. Failure to comply with the sanction(s) imposed under the Student Code.
i. Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse of the student conduct code
system.
B. Attempts and Complicity
Attempts to commit acts prohibited by the Student Conduct Code, and/or knowingly or willfully encouraging or assisting
others to commit any of these acts, are also prohibited and may be adjudicated in the same manner.
C. Violation of Law and WGU Discipline
WGU disciplinary proceedings may be instituted against a student charged with conduct that potentially violates both the
criminal law and this Student Code (that is, if both possible violations result from the same factual situation) without
regard to the pendency of civil or criminal litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution. Proceedings under this
Student Code may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal proceedings at the discretion
of the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Determinations made or sanctions imposed under this
Student Code shall not be subject to change because criminal charges arising out of the same facts giving rise to
violation of university rules were dismissed, reduced, or resolved in favor of or against the criminal law defendant.
ARTICLE VI: STUDENT CONDUCT CODE PROCEDURES
A. Charges and Student Conduct Board Hearings
1. Any member of the WGU community may file charges against a student for violations of the Student Code. A
charge must be submitted in writing and directed to the Student Conduct Administrator. Any charge should be
submitted as soon as possible after the event takes place or is discovered, preferably within the same academic
term or 90 days, whichever is later. The Student Conduct Board retains the right to review all work submitted to
WGU. The Student Conduct Administrator may conduct an investigation to determine if the charges have merit
and/or if they can be disposed of administratively by mutual consent of the parties involved on a basis acceptable
to the Student Conduct Administrator. Such disposition shall be final and there shall be no subsequent
proceedings. If the student admits violating institutional rules, but sanctions are not agreed to, subsequent
process, including hearing if necessary, shall be limited to determining the appropriate sanction(s).
2. All charges shall be presented to the Accused Student in written form. A time shall be set for the Student
Conduct Board Hearing, not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15) calendar days after the student has been
notified. Maximum time limits for scheduling of Student Conduct Board Hearings may be extended at the
discretion of the Student Conduct Administrator.
3. Student Conduct Board hearings shall be conducted by telephone conference according to the following
guidelines:
a. Student Conduct Board Hearings normally shall be conducted in private.
b. The Complainant, Accused Student and their advisors, if any, shall be allowed to attend the entire portion of
the Student Conduct Board Hearing at which information is received (excluding deliberations). Admission of any
other person to the Student Conduct Board Hearing shall be at the discretion of the Student Conduct Board
and/or its Student Conduct Administrator.
c. In Student Conduct Board hearings involving more than one Accused Student, the Student Conduct
Administrator, in his or her discretion, may permit the Student Conduct Board Hearings concerning each student
to be conducted either separately or jointly.
d. The Complainant and the Accused Student may, upon five (5) days advance written notice to WGU, be
assisted by an advisor they choose. The advisor must be a member of the WGU community and may not be
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 43
acting in the capacity of an attorney. If the Complainant and/or the Accused Student fail to provide a minimum of
five (5) days’ notice the Student Conduct Board hearing may be rescheduled.
e. The Complainant and/or the Accused Student is responsible for presenting his or her own information, and
therefore, advisors are not permitted to speak or to participate directly in any Student Conduct Board hearing. A
student should select as an advisor a person whose schedule allows attendance at the scheduled date and time
for the Student Conduct Board Hearing; delays will not normally be allowed due to the scheduling conflicts of an
advisor.
f. The Complainant, the Accused Student and the Student Conduct Board may arrange for witnesses to present
pertinent information to the Student Conduct Board. At the discretion of the Student Conduct Administrator, WGU
will try to arrange the attendance of witnesses who are members of the WGU community, provided such
witnesses are identified by the Complainant and/or Accused Student at least five business days prior to the
hearing. Witnesses will provide information to, and answer questions from, the Student Conduct Board.
Questions may be suggested by the Accused Student and/or Complainant to be answered by each other or by
other witnesses. This will be conducted by the Student Conduct Board with such questions directed to the
chairperson, rather than to the witness directly. This method is used to preserve the educational tone of the
hearing and to avoid creation of an adversarial environment. Questions of whether potential information will be
received shall be resolved in the discretion of the chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
g, Pertinent records, exhibits, and written statements may be accepted as information for consideration by the
Student Conduct Board at the discretion of the chairperson.
h. All procedural questions are subject to the final decision of the chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
i. After the portion of the Student Conduct Board Hearing concludes in which all pertinent information has been
received, the Student Conduct Board shall determine by consensus whether the Accused Student has violated
each section of the Student Code which the student is charged with violating.
j. The Student Conduct Board‘s determination shall be made on the basis clear and convincing evidence
(substantially more likely than not) that the Accused Student violated the Student Code.
k. Formal rules of process, procedure, and/or technical rules of evidence, such as are applied in criminal or civil
court, are not used in Student Code proceedings.
4. There shall be a single verbatim record, such as an audio recording, of all Student Conduct Board Hearings,
however the Board’s deliberations shall not be recorded. The record shall be the property of WGU and will
become part of the Accused Student’s Disciplinary Record and will be maintained on file for seven (7) years
following the last date of academic activity. Records for students that are suspended or expelled from the
university will be kept indefinitely.
5. If an Accused Student who has been provided appropriate notice, does not attend the Student Conduct Board
Hearing, the information in support of the charges shall be presented and considered even if the Accused Student
is not present.
6. The Student Conduct Board may accommodate concerns for the personal safety, well-being, and/or fears of
confrontation of the Complainant or witnesses during the hearing by permitting participation by separate meeting,
separate telephone line, written statement, or other means, where determined to be appropriate by the Student
Conduct Administrator.
B. Sanctions
1. Depending upon a student’s history of misconduct and the severity of the conduct at issue, the Student Conduct
Board may direct the Student Conduct Administrator to impose any of the following sanctions upon a student
found to have violated the rules of conduct described in Article V(A):
a. Level 1 Warning—A written (email) notice that a student’s conduct is violating or has violated the rules of
conduct.
b. Level 2 Warning —A written notice indicating that a student’s conduct is violating or has violated the rules of
conduct and includes an improvement plan that will demonstrate conduct conforming to the Student Code of
Conduct within a specified time period. A Level 2 Warning includes the probability of more severe sanctions for
any subsequent violation of the rules of conduct.
c. Loss of Privileges—A written notice of the denial of specified privileges for a designated period of time.
d. Restitution—Compensation for loss, damage, or injury. This may take the form of appropriate service and/or
monetary or material replacement.
e. Discretionary Sanctions—Work assignments, essays, service to WGU or other related discretionary
assignments.
f. Disciplinary Suspension—Separation of the student from WGU for a definite period of time, after which the
student is eligible to return. Conditions for readmission may be specified.
g. Removal from Academic Program – Removal of the student from her/his chosen academic program for
behaviors not conforming to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the WGU Teacher’s College Code
of Ethics, the WGU Nursing College Code of Ethics, and similar standards of professional conduct associated
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 44
with other WGU licensure programs. WGU may, in its discretion, suggest one or more alternative academic
programs. If an alternative program is not acceptable to the student, he or she will be subject to administrative
withdrawal.
h. Disciplinary Expulsion—Permanent separation of the student from WGU without the possibility of readmission.
i. Revocation of transcripted grades and/or assessment results – Grades or assessment results that are
considered part of the student’s Academic Record may be amended.
j. Revocation of Admission and/or Degree—Admission to, or a degree awarded from WGU may be revoked for
fraud, misrepresentation, or other violation of WGU standards in obtaining the degree, or for other serious
violations committed by a student prior to graduation.
k. Withholding Degree—WGU may withhold awarding a degree otherwise earned until the completion of the
process set forth in this Student Conduct Code, including the completion of all sanctions imposed, if any.
2. More than one of the sanctions listed above may be imposed for any single violation.
3. (a) Disciplinary expulsion, removal from academic program or revocation or withholding of a degree are part of
the student’s permanent academic record. Other disciplinary sanctions shall not be made part of the student’s
permanent academic record, but shall become part of the student’s disciplinary record. (b) In situations involving
both an Accused Student and a student claiming to be the victim of another student’s conduct, the records of the
process and of the sanctions imposed, if any, shall be considered to be the academic records of both the
Accused Student(s) and the student(s) claiming to be the victim because the educational career and chances of
success in the academic community of each may be impacted.
4. Following the Student Conduct Board hearing, the Student Conduct Administrator shall advise the Accused
Student and the Complainant in writing of the Board’s determination and of the sanction(s) imposed, if any.
C. Administrative Holds
If a student fails to respond to a complaint or complete educational sanctions as required, an administrative hold shall be
placed on the student’s record by the Office of Student Conduct to ensure cooperation with the disciplinary process. In
most cases an administrative hold will not prevent a student from completing coursework in the current term, but the
student will be prevented from registering in additional courses or obtaining a degree. Depending on the severity of the
charges, the Conduct Administrator may also institute an administrative hold pending the outcome of proceedings.
D. Interim Suspension
In certain circumstances, the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities, or a designee, may impose a
WGU suspension prior to the Student Conduct Board Hearing before the Student Conduct Board.
Interim suspension may be imposed: (a) to ensure the safety and wellbeing of members of WGU community or
preservation of WGU property; (b) to ensure the student’s own physical or emotional safety and wellbeing; or (c) if the
Accused Student poses an ongoing threat of disruption of, or interference with, the normal operations of WGU.
During the interim suspension, an Accused Student shall be denied access to some or all WGU systems or privileges for
which the Accused Student might otherwise be eligible, as the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities or
the Student Conduct Administrator may determine to be appropriate for the purposes of investigation.
The interim suspension does not replace the regular process, which shall proceed on the normal schedule, up to and
through the Student Conduct Board Hearing, if required.
The Accused Student shall be notified in writing of this action and the reasons for the suspension. The notice shall
include the time, date, and place of a subsequent hearing at which the Accused Student may show cause why his or her
continued use of the WGU systems or privileges does not constitute a threat [and at which they may contest whether a
WGU rule was violated]. Time lost within the term while the student is on interim suspension may not be added back to
the end of the term in the form of a term extension or incomplete grade.
E. Appeals
1. A decision reached by the Student Conduct Board or a sanction imposed by the Student Conduct Administrator
may be appealed by the Accused Student(s) or Complainant(s) to the Appellate Board within five (5) business
days of the decision. Such appeals shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Student Conduct
Administrator or his or her designee.
2. Except as required to explain the basis of new information, an appeal shall be limited to a review of the verbatim
record of the Student Conduct Board Hearing and supporting documents for one or more of the following
purposes:
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 45
a. To determine whether the Student Conduct Board Hearing was conducted fairly in light of the charges and
information presented, and in conformity with prescribed procedures giving the complaining party a reasonable
opportunity to prepare and to present information that the Student Code was violated, and giving the Accused
Student a reasonable opportunity to prepare and to present a response to those allegations. Deviations from
designated procedures will not be a basis for sustaining an appeal unless significant prejudice results.
b. To determine whether the decision reached regarding the Accused Student was based on substantial
information, that is, whether there were facts in the case that, if believed by the fact finder, were sufficient to
establish that a violation of the Student Code occurred. To determine whether the sanction(s) imposed were
appropriate for the violation of the Student Code which the student was found to have committed.
c. To consider new information, sufficient to alter a decision or other relevant facts not brought out in the original
hearing, because such information and/or facts were not known to the person appealing at the time of the original
Student Conduct Board Hearing.
3. If an appeal is upheld by the Appellate Board, the matter shall be returned to the original Student Conduct Board
and Student Conduct Administrator for reopening of Student Conduct Board Hearing to allow reconsideration of
the original determination and/or sanction(s). If an appeal is not upheld, the matter shall be considered final and
binding upon all involved.
ARTICLE VII: INTERPRETATION AND REVISION
A. Any question of interpretation or application of the Student Code shall be referred to the Senior Manager of Student
Rights and Responsibilities or his or her designee for final determination.
B. The Student Code shall be reviewed every two (2) years under the direction or discretion of the Senior Manager of
Student Rights and Responsibilities. In the interim this code may be amended at any time upon appropriate notice to
students. Suggested revisions may be made to the Student Conduct Administrator to be reviewed by a panel assigned
by the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
Refund and Cancellation Policy
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Institutional-Withdrawal-Refund-Policy/ta-p/87
Students with a withdrawal date up through the completion of 60% of a term are eligible for a refund of a prorated
portion of tuition. Students with a withdrawal date occurring after 60% of the term is completed are not eligible for a
refund. The admission application fee, resource fee and program specific fees are non-refundable.
Determining Withdrawal Dates
Withdrawal dates are determined in two ways, either through student-initiated withdrawal (official) or through WGU
administrative withdrawal (unofficial). Student-initiated withdrawal occurs when the student notifies WGU of the intent to
withdraw. Administrative withdrawal occurs when WGU determines that the student is no longer enrolled based on a
variety of reasons such as a student's lack of academic activity, failure to establish academic activity verification at the
beginning of a new term or failure to pay tuition.
Student-initiated withdrawals: The withdrawal date is the date the student notified WGU of the intent to withdraw.
Administrative withdrawals: The withdrawal date is the last date of student academic activity.
Calculating the Refund
Students who withdraw before completing 60% of a term (the number of calendar days from the official term start date to
the withdrawal date, divided by the total number of calendar days in the term), are eligible for a prorated refund of
tuition. The amount of the tuition refund is calculated by multiplying tuition billed for the term (less any tuition discounts)
by the percentage of the term the student was not enrolled, and subtracting the amount of tuition already paid. For
example, a student who withdraws halfway (50%) through a term and has paid $2000 of a $3000 total tuition charge
would be entitled to a refund of $500 (($3000 * 50%) - $2000 = $500)).
Refunds
Once eligibility for a refund is calculated, the Student Accounts Office processes tuition charges and refunds within 30
days, as applicable. In the case of financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the
appropriate grant or loan program based on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 46
calculation, students may owe WGU a portion of tuition and fees that are not covered. Funds reimbursed to the student
are reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., tuition paid by check is refunded by check, and tuition paid by
credit card is refunded by credit card (less non refundable convenience fee).
All funding sources including scholarships - both internal and external, waivers, discounts and grants - are subject to
return of Title IV calculation. In the case of third party funds; i.e., employer contributions, government funding and
military payments, WGU will first verify with the original payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. Students are
responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed, after refunds to all payers.
Note: For Missouri residents, the application fee is refundable if the applicant terminates the admission process by
notifying the Enrollment or Admissions Department within three business days of paying the application fee. The
resource fee is billed at the beginning of each term and is refundable if the student terminates enrollment within three
business days of the start of the term. After three business days, these fees are non-refundable.
Florida residents who enroll in the B.S. in Nursing program are eligible for the refund of an application fee payment ($65)
if the Enrollment Agreement is canceled within three days.
Tuition Appeal
In the case of exceptional circumstances where students are not entitled to a refund under the policies outlined above,
students may make an appeal for tuition considerations by submitting a written explanation of circumstances that
warrant an exception to the published refund policy. Exceptional circumstances might include incapacitating illness or
injury. Supporting documentation to verify exceptional circumstances is required. Disciplinary action imposed on a
student due to violations of the Code of Student Conduct is not considered valid grounds for tuition appeal. Send all
appeals to Student Services at studentservices@wgu.edu.
Student Complaint Process
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Student-Complaint-Policy/ta-p/194
Students who believe they have been treated unfairly by WGU, either through the action of individuals or the application
of existing policy, may have their complaint(s) addressed by the procedures described in the Student Complaint Policy
(available in the student handbook). Students who are unclear about the appropriate procedures may contact Student
Services for guidance at (877) 435-7948 or studentservices@wgu.edu.
Informal Complaints
An informal complaint can arise from any student dissatisfaction. With some exceptions, WGU encourages students to
handle complaints as close to the source as possible by discussing issues with the relevant WGU department, staff
member or supervisor. This practice allows issues to be resolved more quickly by individuals with required expertise.
The Student Complaint Policy describes procedures established to promote direct interaction with responsible university
departments and staff.
Formal Complaints
If a student is unsure how to approach a concern or an earlier complaint cannot be resolved informally, the student may
initiate a formal complaint by sending a written explanation of the concern to WGU Student Services at
studentservices@wgu.edu. The written complaint must describe who has been involved, the current status of the
concern, and steps taken to resolve the concern informally.
WGU Student Services will work to swiftly resolve each complaint and in every case will respond within 10 business
days. If Student Services is not able to resolve the concern to the student's satisfaction, within 5 business days the
student may appeal the decision by submitting a brief, written summary of the concern to WGU’s Vice President,
Student Experience. The decision of the Vice President of Student Experience shall be final.
Discrimination and Harassment
If a complaint involves any type of alleged discrimination or harassment in violation of the WGU Discrimination,
Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Stalking and Retaliation Policy or the student wishes to remain anonymous, the
student may immediately make a formal complaint to the Title IX Coordinator per the process outlined in the WGU
Discrimination Grievance Procedures.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 47
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Discrimination-Grievance-Procedures/ta-p/115
Contact information for the Title IX Coordinator:
Dr. Lucas Kavlie - Title IX Coordinator
Western Governors University
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
TitleIX@wgu.edu
Direct: 385.428.8783
Toll Free: 877.435.7948 x8783
Consumer Complaint Process
In the event that students believe that their issue with the university cannot be resolved through the grievance and
complaint processes noted above, they have the right to contact our accrediting agencies and/or various state agencies.
WGU publishes Consumer Complaint Process information in the online student handbook.
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Consumer-Complaint-Process/ta-p/160
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 48
Academic Programs
College of Business
● B.S. Business Management
● B.S. Business—Healthcare Management
● B.S. Business—Human Resource Management
● B.S. Business—Information Technology Management
● B.S. Marketing Management
● B.S. Accounting
● Master of Business Administration (MBA)
● MBA Information Technology Management
● MBA Healthcare Management
● M.S. Management and Leadership
● M.S. Accounting
College of Health Professions
● B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure)
● B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN)
● B.S. Health Information Management
● M.S. Nursing—Education
● M.S. Nursing—Leadership and Management
● M.S. Nursing—Nursing Informatics
● M.S. Nursing—Education (RN to MSN)
● M.S. Nursing—Leadership and Management (RN to MSN)
● M.S. Nursing—Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN)
● Master of Health Leadership
College of Information Technology
● B.S. Cloud and Systems Administration
● B.S. Computer Science
● B.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
● B.S. Data Management/Data Analytics
● B.S. Information Technology
● B.S. Network Operations and Security
● B.S. Software Development
● M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
● M.S. Data Analytics
● M.S. Information Technology Management
Teachers College
Bachelor's Degrees with Licensure:
● B.A. Elementary Education
● B.A. Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure)
● B.A. Special Education (Mild to Moderate)
● B.S. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
● B.S. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
● B.S. Science Education (Middle Grades)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Certification:
● Post-Baccalaureate, Elementary Education
Master's Degrees with Licensure:
● M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education
● M.A. Teaching, English Education (Secondary)
● M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 49
● M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
● M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary)
Master's Degrees for Already-Licensed Teachers:
● M.S. Curriculum and Instruction
● M.S. Special Education (K-12)
● M.S. Educational Leadership
● M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
● M.Ed. Instructional Design
● M.Ed. Learning and Technology
● M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6)
● M.A. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
● M.A. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
● M.A. Science Education (Middle Grades)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
Endorsement Programs:
● Endorsement Preparation Program in Educational Leadership
● Endorsement Preparation Program in English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
WGU publishes all available programs on the university website (http://www.wgu.edu/degrees_and_programs).
WGU’s public website provides access to a description of every degree program offered by the university, and each
description includes the requirements to be met for satisfactory completion.
Each degree listing includes an overview of the program and the program’s standard path. The standard path outlines
degree requirements (assessments and associated courses of study), the order in which requirements should be
completed, and the associated competency units (credits) by term.
A WGU course is an organized learning resource, comparable to a traditional course syllabus, and containing a week-
by-week pacing component with a focus on helping students navigate independent learning resources in an efficient
way. Each assessment in the standard path has a related course to guide students in acquiring the skills, knowledge,
and abilities needed to pass the assessment.
Information provided for each course includes: the Assessment/Course Code; the Course Name; and the competency
unit(s) earned when the assessment is passed. Example: BAC1 – Foundations of College Mathematics (2). Refer to the
standard path codes for any program of interest to determine which courses apply to that program.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 50
College of Business
The WGU College of Business adheres to the university mission statement and, as part of the college’s strategic
planning, has adopted several guiding principles or tenets that track closely with that mission:
● Obsessive, Unified Approach to Success: The college works together as a unified team to seamlessly educate
and obsessively support student and alumni success.
● Learning: All students can master complex competencies and advance their fluencies with sufficient effort,
commitment and self-management, together with support from the business college.
● Employer-Driven Programs: The college develops and delivers quality programs that serve the current and
future needs of employers and thereby serve students.
● Flexibility and Individualization: The college serves each student for his or her needs for learning and interest
through flexible and individualized education.
● Improvement and Innovation: The college relentlessly improves programs and continuously innovates for
increasing rates of graduation and real-world outcomes for alumni.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 51
Bachelor of Science, Business Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business Management is a competency-based program that enables leaders and
managers in organizations to earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The B.S. in Business Management is great
preparation for a variety of careers in the business field. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of study,
WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2100 C994 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 2
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 3
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 4
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 4
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 5
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 5
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 5
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 5
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 6
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 6
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 6
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 8
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 8
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 8
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 8
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
BSMG 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 52
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 9
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 9
HRM 3500 C235 Training and Development 3 9
MGMT 4800 C714 Business Strategy 3 10
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 10
BUS 4840 QGT1 Business Management Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSMG 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 53
Bachelor of Science, Business - Healthcare Management
The Bachelor of Science, Business - Healthcare Management degree requires completion of courses focused on
healthcare management areas in addition to our existing general education and business core curriculum. This
program is designed to prepare WGU graduates for a variety of entry level managerial positions in healthcare
organizations. The BS, Business - Healthcare Management degree program prepares you with the knowledge and
skills to serve in a variety of non-clinical or health care services roles at skilled nursing facilities, residential care
facilities, small to medium healthcare facilities, and coordination specialist, managers for Accountable Care
Organizations, insurance companies, or community health organizations. In addition, you would have the ability to join
other organizations focused on developing, manufacturing, and providing medical related products or services such as
pharmaceutical and medical device companies, case management organizations and the financial services sector of
the healthcare industry. You will learn the factors affecting complex medical systems and organizational integration of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) with its complex rules and compliance standards. You will be
able to utilize healthcare data and make appropriate recommendations to improve patient outcomes and satisfaction.
Additionally, you will learn care coordination to improve organizational efficiencies and operations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 2
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 2
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 3
HCM 2210 C426 Healthcare Values and Ethics 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 3
HCM 2110 C425 Healthcare Delivery Systems, Regulation, and Compliance 3 4
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 4
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 4
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 5
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 5
HCM 2310 C427 Technology Applications in Healthcare 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 6
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 6
HCM 3210 C429 Healthcare Operations Management 3 6
HCM 3410 C431 Healthcare Research and Statistics 3 7
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 7
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 7
BSBUHCM 201801 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 54
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
MGMT 4800 C714 Business Strategy 3 8
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 8
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 8
HCM 3310 C430 Healthcare Quality Improvement and Risk Management 3 8
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 9
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 9
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 9
HCM 3510 C432 Healthcare Management and Strategy 3 10
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 10
HCM 3110 C428 Financial Resource Management in Healthcare 3 10
HCM 2910 C439 Healthcare Management Capstone 4 10
Total CUs: 124
BSBUHCM 201801 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 55
Bachelor of Science, Business - Human Resource Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business- Human Resource Management is a competency-based program that enables
students to earn a Bachelor of Science degree that is tailored to the student's professional HR experience. The
Business- Human Resource Management degree is great preparation for a career as a human resource manager or
personnel director. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of study, development of a comprehensive
portfolio, WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone project. In addition, this program is aligned with and
will help you prepare for the Professional in Human Resources (PHR)* Certification Exam and the Assurance of
Learning Exam should you decide to pursue either of these on your own. *Other experience requirements apply to
undertake this exams.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 1
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 1
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 2
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 3
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 3
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 4
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 5
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 5
MGMT 4800 C714 Business Strategy 3 6
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
HRM 3500 C235 Training and Development 3 6
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 7
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 7
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 8
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 8
BSBUHR 201712 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 56
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 8
BUS 4800 HMP1 Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management 3 8
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 9
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 9
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 9
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 10
BUS 4880 QET1 Business - HR Management Capstone Project 4 10
BUS 4881 PFHM Business - HR Management Portfolio Requirement 3 10
Total CUs: 120
BSBUHR 201712 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 57
Bachelor of Science, Business - Information Technology Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business- Information Technology Management is a competency-based program that
enables information technology professionals to earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The Bachelor of Science in
Business- Information Technology Management degree is great preparation for a career as an IT project manager,
director of customer service, data center manager, or equivalent position. This program consists of eight balanced
areas of study, development of a comprehensive portfolio, WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone
project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 1
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 2
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 3
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 3
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 3
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 4
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 5
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 5
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 6
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 6
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 7
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 7
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 8
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 8
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 8
BSBUITM 201712 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 58
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 8
BUS 4891 PFIT Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement 3 9
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 9
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 9
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
MGMT 4800 C714 Business Strategy 3 10
BUS 4890 QFT1 Business - IT Management Capstone Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSBUITM 201712 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 59
Bachelor of Science, Marketing Management
The Bachelor of Science in Marketing Management is a competency-based program that enables marketing and sales
professionals to earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The B.S. in Marketing Management is great preparation for a
variety of careers in marketing, promotion, and sales management. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of
study (domains), WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2100 C994 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 2
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 3
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 3
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 4
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 4
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 4
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 4
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 5
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 5
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 6
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 6
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 6
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 6
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 7
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 7
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 8
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 8
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 8
MGMT 4800 C714 Business Strategy 3 8
BUS 4730 ASC1 Marketing Management Concepts 12 9
BSMK 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 60
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 4740 AST1 Marketing Management Tasks 6 10
BUS 4870 QIT1 Business Marketing Management Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSMK 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 61
Bachelor of Science, Accounting
The Bachelor of Science in Accounting is a competency-based program that enables professionals in accounting to
earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The Accounting degree is great preparation for a career in accounting in a public
company, non-profit entity, or other organization. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of study, WGU
competency-based assessments, and a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 2
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 3
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 3
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 4
ACCT 2320 CZC1 Accounting II 3 4
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 4
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 4
MGMT 4800 C714 Business Strategy 3 5
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 5
ACCT 4650 C241 Business Law for Accountants 3 5
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 5
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 6
ACCT 3610 C248 Intermediate Accounting I 3 6
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 6
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 6
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 7
ACCT 3620 C249 Intermediate Accounting II 3 7
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 7
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 7
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 8
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 8
ACCT 3630 C237 Taxation I 3 8
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 8
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 9
BSAC 201801 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 62
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ACCT 4620 C238 Taxation II 3 9
ACCT 3640 C242 Accounting Information Systems 3 9
ACCT 4800 C240 Auditing 3 9
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 10
ACCT 3660 C250 Cost and Managerial Accounting 3 10
ACCT 4900 C251 Accounting Capstone 5 10
Total CUs: 122
BSAC 201801 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 63
Master of Business Administration
The Master of Business Administration program is specifically designed for experienced business professionals and
managers seeking upward career mobility or professionals who want to broaden their business knowledge.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MGMT 6020 C215 Operations Management 3 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
MGMT 6900 C216 MBA Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 34
MBA 201404 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 64
MBA, IT Management
The Master of Business Administration-Information Technology Management is specifically designed for experienced
business professionals and managers seeking upward career mobility in the information technology arena. The
program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-level information technology management position in business,
industry, and non-profit organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
ITM 5000 MGT2 IT Project Management 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ITM 6000 MMT2 IT Strategic Solutions 4 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
ITM 6900 C218 MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 35
MBAITM 201408 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 65
MBA, Healthcare Management
The Master of Business Administration Healthcare Management is specifically designed for those in an array of
leadership roles as well as those transitioning into healthcare from a different industry to develop strong health care
leaders by strengthening your analytical and critical thinking skills. The program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-
level management position in private and public sectors of the healthcare industry including hospitals, health system
management, consulting, physician practices, and government and non-government agencies.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 6020 C215 Operations Management 3 1
HCM 5000 AFT2 Accreditation Audit 4 1
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 3
HCM 6000 AMT2 Service Line Development 4 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
HCM 6900 C219 MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 36
MBAHM 201802 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 66
Master of Science, Management and Leadership
The Master of Science, Management and Leadership degree program focuses on management and leadership skills
that can be applied to multiple settings, including business, government, non-profit, or education. The program
prepares you with knowledge and skills to lead through collaboration, team building, interpersonal communication and
virtual environments. You will learn applicable leadership skills to foster creativity, innovation and change. The
program includes topics such as organizational planning, leadership, conflict resolution and negotiation,
communication and other management skills. You will enhance your ability to manage in a dynamic business
environment that promotes growth, creativity and innovation. You will demonstrate the essential leadership practices of
inspiring a vision, encouraging others to act, data-driven strategic planning, ethical reasoning, negotiation, critical
thinking, and complex problem solving, which are all necessary to be successful leaders.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MGMT 5020 C203 Becoming an Effective Leader 3 1
BUS 5000 C201 Business Acumen 3 2
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 2
MGMT 5030 C205 Leading Teams 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MGMT 6040 C208 Change Management and Innovation 3 3
MGMT 6050 C209 Strategic Management 3 4
MGMT 6910 C210 Management and Leadership Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 34
MSML 201404 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 67
Master of Science, Accounting
The Master of Science in Accounting (MAcc) degree provides the advanced accounting knowledge and skills that you
need for a successful career as a professional accountant in public accounting, industry, government and non-profit
organizations. A primary objective of the masters program is to build on the knowledge gained in an undergraduate
accounting program and help prepare you to sit for the CPA (Certified Public Accountant) exam*, the Certified
Management Accounting (CMA) exam, and the Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) exam. This program focuses not only
on the technical and analytical skills necessary for accounting positions, but also incorporates critical communication
and strategic skills required in todays fast changing world. You will learn to assess complex transactions and
determine the proper treatment of those transactions in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP). You will also learn advanced auditing skills to be able to enhance internal controls of an organization and
identify material weaknesses in those controls. You will develop and be able to apply advanced managerial accounting
techniques in real-world situations as well as become familiar with the accounting for governmental and nonprofit
organizations. At the end of this program, you will have gained necessary analytical skills to address complex financial
information and make appropriate recommendations to management. * Students may need to meet additional state-
specific requirements to be eligible to sit for the CPA exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 1
ACCT 5100 C243 Advanced Financial Accounting 3 1
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
ACCT 5200 C252 Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting 3 2
ACCT 6300 C245 Accounting Research 3 2
ACCT 5300 C253 Advanced Managerial Accounting 3 2
ACCT 6000 C254 Fraud and Forensic Accounting 3 3
ACCT 6200 C244 Advanced Auditing 3 3
MGMT 6050 C209 Strategic Management 3 3
ACCT 6100 C239 Advanced Tax Concepts 3 4
Total CUs: 30
MACC 201407 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 68
College of Health Professions
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 69
Bachelor of Science, Nursing
The prelicensure BSN degree focuses on contemporary nursing practices to build nursing skills and competencies
using technology-based learning. It is structured to develop competent, BSN nurses in a program that is sustainable,
scalable, and nationally relevant. The prelicensure BSN program includes a strategic partnership between the Western
Governors University Nursing Program and healthcare employers who provide practice sites and clinical coaches.
Graduates are prepared to function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings. The prelicensure
BSN program includes the study of medical-surgical (including critical care), psychiatric/mental health, pediatrics,
obstetrics, and community health nursing and includes courses on evidence-based practice, research, leadership,
nursing informatics, and professional nursing roles and values. Graduates are eligible to apply to take the NCLEX-RN
exam for state licensure and be prepared to seek nursing positions for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA
appointments as well as assume roles in school, community, and occupational health, and other acute and non-acute
care settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MS, Nursing programs. This degree program includes online
and distance learning plus high fidelity simulation labs and hands on clinical experiences. The WGU prelicensure BS,
Nursing program is evidence-based and developed according to The Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for
Professional Practice from the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2008) (click here to view). In addition, it
incorporates competencies and standards from professional organizations and state regulations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 2
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 2
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 2
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 3
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 4
NURS 2211 C825 Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science 3 4
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 4
NURS 2410 C486 Organizational Systems: Safety and Regulation 1 4
NURS 2710 C466 Medication Dosage Calculations 1 4
NURS 2060 C467 Pharmacology 2 4
NURS 3510 C468 Information Management and the Application of Technology 3 5
NURS 3210 C469 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I 4 5
NURS 3215 C470 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical 2 5
Learning
NURS 3100 C492 Physical Assessment 4 5
NURS 3220 C471 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II 4 6
NURS 3225 C472 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II Clinical 2 6
Learning
NURS 3230 C473 Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses 3 6
BSRN 201611 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 70
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 3235 C474 Clinical Learning for Complex Illnesses in Adults 3 6
NURS 2015 C304 Professional Roles and Values 3 7
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 7
NURS 4250 C476 Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing 3 7
NURS 4251 C487 Psych/Mental Health Clinical 2 7
NURS 3310 C465 Care of the Developing Family 4 7
NURS 3320 C477 Nursing Care of Children 4 8
NURS 3418 C826 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 8
NURS 3420 C230 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Clinical 2 8
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 8
NURS 4220 C488 Critical Care Nursing 4 9
NURS 4225 C478 Critical Care Nursing Clinical Learning 2 9
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 9
NURS 4911 C490 Professional Nursing Role Transition 3 9
NURS 4800 C491 Nursing Clinical Practicum 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSRN 201611 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 71
Bachelor of Science, Nursing
The RN to BSN degree builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma
levels. Initial licensure programs prepare graduates for RN licensure with courses in the biological and social sciences
and nursing. The BSN degree for RNs expands knowledge in areas of research, theory, leadership, community
concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in healthcare. Graduates are prepared to
function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings. Graduates are eligible for military, U.S. Public
Health, and VA appointments as well as roles in school health, community, occupational, and other non-acute care
settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MSN programs. All work in this degree program is online and at a
distance. The WGU RN to BSN program is evidence-based and developed according to The Essentials of
Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice from the American Association of Colleges of Nursing
American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2008)(click here to view). In addition, it incorporates competencies and
standards from other specialty organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 5
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 5
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 5
NURS 3510 C468 Information Management and the Application of Technology 3 6
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 6
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 6
Experience
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 6
NURS 2015 C304 Professional Roles and Values 3 7
NURS 4910 C493 Leadership and Professional Image 2 7
Total CUs: 120
BSNU 201611 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 72
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management
The Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management provides a solid foundation in computer information
systems and technologies for healthcare organizations including healthcare regulation, project management of health
systems, databases, and security. In addition to the health information management content, the degree program
includes a broad collegiate education. The program is designed for those who have some technical or clinical
knowledge in a health care environment and are ready to move to increased levels of expertise and knowledge in the
health information management field. The health information management component of the Bachelor of Science
program consists of the following areas of study: Healthcare Data, Health Information Technology, Medical
Terminology, Pathophysiology and Pharmacology. There are a number of other areas of study that students master
including Fundamentals of IT in Healthcare, Legal and Ethical Considerations in Healthcare, Leadership and
Management, Anatomy and Physiology, Healthcare Compliance and Coding, Project Management, Financial
Resource Management, and Healthcare Statistics. There are two professional practice experiences required with a
portfolio project in each. At the end of the program students complete a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 1
HIM 2011 C799 Healthcare Ecosystems 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
HIM 2001 C800 Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems 4 1
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
HIM 2215 C801 Health Information Law and Regulations 4 2
HLTH 2100 D033 Healthcare Information Systems Management 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 3
HLTH 3501 C802 Foundations in Healthcare Information Management 4 4
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 4
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 4
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 4
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 5
HIM 2104 C810 Foundations in Healthcare Data Management 3 5
HIM 2150 C804 Medical Terminology 3 5
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 6
HCM 2507 C805 Pathophysiology 3 6
HIM 2421 C806 Introduction to Pharmacology 3 6
HLTH 3315 C803 Data Analytics and Information Governance 4 6
HIM 2515 C808 Classification Systems 4 7
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
HIM 3701 C811 Healthcare Financial Resource Management 4 7
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 8
BSHIM 201903 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 73
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HIM 3215 C807 Healthcare Compliance 3 8
HIM 4502 C813 Healthcare Statistics and Research 3 8
HIM 4610 C812 Healthcare Reimbursement 4 8
HIM 4511 C815 Quality and Performance Management and Methods 4 9
HIM 3205 C816 Healthcare System Applications 4 9
HLTH 4504 C504 Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Management 4 9
Level
HLTH 4509 C509 Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Technical 3 10
Level
HIM 4506 C818 Health Information Management Capstone 4 10
Total CUs: 121
BSHIM 201903 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 74
Master of Science, Nursing - Education (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science degree is a competency-based program that prepares graduates to be educators in diverse
settings: hospitals, community agencies, schools, industry and businesses, and nursing programs. They provide
education and training to nurses, nursing students, school children, community groups, workers, patients, and
consumers. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing Program Education content is evidence based on national
standards and research related to effective teaching, learning, and role development. It provides the knowledge and
skills that enable educators to teach effectively in diverse learning environments. The Master of Science in Nursing for
Nurse Educators content and processes are consistent with the National League for Nursing (NLN) Nurse Educator
Competencies. The degree program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified educators. The hallmarks of our
program include: (a) research-based course preparation and (b) all work in this degree program is online. This
program consists of developing core knowledge related to complexities of healthcare, access, quality, and costs for
diverse populations. New nursing knowledge includes research, theory, technology applied to nursing practice,
evidence based practice, ethics, and new roles for master's prepared nurses. The nurse educator focuses on learning
styles, the development and socialization of learners, and strategies to facilitate learning. Educators also need to
organize their activities around learning theories. Developing curriculum, objectives, and learning modules are part of
an educator role. The process for assessment, measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is
presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 1
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 1
Technology
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 1
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 2
Practice
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 2
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 2
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments 2 3
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 3
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning 2 3
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing 2 3
Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student 3 4
Learning
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing 2 4
Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 4
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 4
Total CUs: 36
MSNUED 201805 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 75
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science, Nursing-Leadership and Management is a competency-based program that prepares
graduates to be leaders and managers in diverse settings: hospitals, long term care facilities, community service
agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. They use their organizational, analytic,
strategicplanning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills to services in diverse nursing and healthcare
settings. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing, Leadership and Management program content is evidence based on
national standards and research related to creating work environments that are collaborative, interdisciplinary, and
promote effective functioning in complex nursing and healthcare environments. The Master of Science in Nursing-
Leadership/Management content and processes are consistent with the American Nurses Association (ANA)
Standards for Nurse Administrators and the AONE competencies for nursing managers and executives. The degree
program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified nurse administrators (nurse managers and nurse executives).
This program consists of developing core knowledge related to complexities of healthcare, access, quality, and costs
for diverse populations. New nursing knowledge includes research, theory, technology applied to nursing practice,
evidence based practice, ethics, and new roles for master's prepared nurses. The nurse leadership/management
focuses on organizational and leadership theories, strategic planning, regulatory standards, risk management,
principles of financial management, and concepts of human resource management. A case study approach is used to
examine organizational, financial, and personnel issues and their resolution. The process for assessment,
measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 1
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 1
Technology
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 1
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 2
Practice
NURS 5621 C352 Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics 2 2
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 2
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 3
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 3
NURS 6400 C161 Principles of Organizational Performance Management 2 3
NURS 6420 C162 Principles of Healthcare Business and Financial Management 3 3
NURS 6430 C163 Strategic Leadership and Future Delivery Models 2 4
NURS 6501 C823 Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience 4 4
NURS 6601 C824 Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone 2 4
Total CUs: 36
MSNULM 201611 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 76
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a
rewarding career as a specialist in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge,
skills, and expertise to design, develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery
of safe, efficient and high-quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU M.S. Nursing Informatics program apply
systems-thinking strategies to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and distribution of
healthcare needs in diverse populations. This program prepares students to select and use contemporary technologies
to collaborate with interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of health education programs,
evidence-based practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing science, computer science
and information science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced informatics skills to improve
health outcomes, such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters degree program supports
students in applying their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to real-world situations
where the use of information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and coordinating care
across multiple settings. Graduates of the WGU masters-degree Nursing Informatics program are prepared to gather,
document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a foundation for data-driven decisions that inform practice
processes and the implementation of interventions or strategies to improve healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 1
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 1
Technology
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 1
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 2
Practice
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 2
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 2
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 3
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 3
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 3
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 4
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management Systems 2 4
NURS 6020 C854 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 4
NURS 6030 C855 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 5
Total CUs: 36
MSNUNI 201812 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 77
Master of Science, Nursing - Education (RN to MSN)
The Masters of Science in Nursing (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program that builds on the
foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the degree
focuses on expanding nursing knowledge in areas of research, theory, community concepts, healthcare policy,
therapeutic interventions, and current trends in healthcare. The Master of Science, Nursing Education specialty degree
further prepares graduates to be educators, leaders and change agents in diverse educational and practice settings.
Graduates are prepared to lead collaborative academic-practice partnerships that strengthen nursing and advance
health in diverse populations. As Academic Nurse Educators, graduates demonstrate a professional presence by
helping nursing students acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies to work effectively in inter-professional teams
across a variety of settings. Masters of Science in Nursing Education students will experience theoretical applications
and practical perspectives regarding learning styles, the development and socialization of learners, strategies to
facilitate learning, and contemporary design and development of high-quality courses and assessments and trends
that are currently relevant to nursing education. The content, resources, activities, and assessments in this program
are consistent with recommendations from American Association of Colleges of Nursing and the National League for
Nursing. Hallmarks of this program include: (a) authentic learning experiences, b) evidence-based course preparation,
c) program mentoring, and d) self-paced learning in an asynchronous online learning environment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 6
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 6
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 7
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 7
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 7
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 8
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 8
Experience
NURS 5010 C128 Advanced Professional Roles and Values 2 8
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 8
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 9
Technology
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 9
MSRNNUEDGR 201805 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 78
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 9
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 10
Practice
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 10
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 11
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments 2 11
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning 2 11
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing 2 11
Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student 3 12
Learning
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing 2 12
Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 12
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 12
Total CUs: 150
MSRNNUEDGR 201805 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 79
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN)
The Masters of Science in Nursing (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program that builds on the
foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the degree
focuses on contemporary nursing practice in the developing of skills and competencies using technology-based
learning. It is structured to develop high quality, highly educated BSN nurses preparing graduates who are equipped to
function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings by expanding nurses knowledge in areas of
research, theory, community concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in health care.
Graduates will be eligible for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA appointments as well as assume roles in school
health, community, occupational, and other nonacute care settings. The Master of Science portion of the degree
further prepares graduates to be leaders and managers in diverse settings; hospitals, long-term care facilities,
community service agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. They use their organizational,
analytic, strategic planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills to services in diverse nursing and
healthcare settings.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 6
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 6
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 7
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 7
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 7
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 8
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 8
Experience
NURS 5010 C128 Advanced Professional Roles and Values 2 8
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 8
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 9
Technology
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 9
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 9
Development
MSRNNULMGR 201611 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 80
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 10
Practice
NURS 5621 C352 Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics 2 10
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 11
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 11
NURS 6400 C161 Principles of Organizational Performance Management 2 11
NURS 6420 C162 Principles of Healthcare Business and Financial Management 3 11
NURS 6430 C163 Strategic Leadership and Future Delivery Models 2 12
NURS 6501 C823 Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience 4 12
NURS 6601 C824 Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone 2 12
Total CUs: 150
MSRNNULMGR 201611 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 81
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN)
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program that
builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the
degree focuses on contemporary nursing practice in the developing of skills and competencies using technology-
based learning. The master of science portion of the degree prepares graduates for a rewarding career as a specialist
in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge, skills, and expertise to design,
develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery of safe, efficient and high-
quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU M.S. Nursing Informatics program apply systems-thinking strategies
to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and distribution of healthcare needs in diverse
populations. This program prepares students to select and use contemporary technologies to collaborate with
interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of health education programs, evidence-based
practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing science, computer science and information
science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced informatics skills to improve health outcomes,
such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters degree program supports students in applying
their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to real-world situations where the use of
information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and coordinating care across multiple
settings. Graduates are prepared to gather, document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a foundation for
data-driven decisions that inform practice processes and the implementation of interventions or strategies to improve
healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 6
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 6
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 7
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 7
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 7
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 8
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 8
Experience
NURS 5010 C128 Advanced Professional Roles and Values 2 8
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 8
MSRNNUNIFGR 201812 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 82
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 9
Technology
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 9
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 9
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 10
Practice
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 10
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 11
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 11
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 11
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 11
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management Systems 2 12
NURS 6020 C854 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 12
NURS 6030 C855 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 12
Total CUs: 150
MSRNNUNIFGR 201812 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 83
Master of Health Leadership
The Master of Health Leadership degree requires completion of project-based courses and a capstone culminating in
five program outcomes: transformational leader, value innovator, tactical manager, analyst, and integrated systems
expert. The program also embeds themes of person-focused care, professionalism, technology, and ethics, and
fosters innovation and sustainability in health systems. Courses become progressively complex as the curriculum
advances, integrating key skill sets and a knowledge base that will foster career development in health leadership.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MHL 5110 C980 Innovative Solutions in Health Leadership 3 1
MHL 5210 C981 Collaborative Leadership 3 1
MHL 5310 C982 Healthcare Models and Systems 2 1
MHL 5410 C983 Quality Improvement in Healthcare 3 2
MHL 5510 C984 Healthcare Financial Management 3 2
MHL 5600 C985 Analytical Methods of Health Leaders 2 2
MHL 6210 C986 Enterprise Risk Management 3 3
MHL 6310 C987 Healthcare Information Technology 2 3
MHL 6410 C988 Population Healthcare Coordination 3 3
MHL 6510 C989 Challenges in Community Healthcare 3 4
MHL 6610 C990 Integrated Health Leadership 3 4
MHL 6910 C991 Health Leadership Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 34
MHL 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 84
College of Information Technology
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 85
Bachelor of Science, Cloud and Systems Administration
In response to an increasing demand for systems administration professionals, the Bachelor of Science, Cloud and
Systems Administration (BSCLSA) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and experience in
operating systems, systems security, and cloud technologies to manage system infrastructure and secure data
through effective IT policies and procedures. The BSCLSA curriculum includes proven methods for systems
administration to ensure uptime, performance, resources, and security of systems to meet the needs of the
organization. The program builds upon a core IT curriculum that includes systems and services, networking and
security, scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, and web development. Students seeking the
BS Cloud and Systems Administration degree demonstrate additional competencies in cloud and system
administration area by taking courses in major operating systems, cloud technology, and security.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 4
ITEC 3655 C851 Linux Foundations 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 5
ITEC 3659 C697 Operating Systems I 4 5
ITEC 3669 C698 Operating Systems II 4 5
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 5
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2901 C849 Cloud Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
ITEC 3901 C923 Cloud Applications 3 7
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 7
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 7
ITSW 3160 C916 Scripting and Automation 2 8
ITEC 3311 C185 Network Policies and Services Management 6 8
BSCLSA 201712 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 86
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 3741 C186 Server Administration 6 8
ITEC 3341 C187 Network Reliability and Fault Tolerance 6 9
ITEC 3902 C924 Cloud Deployment and Operations 3 9
ITEC 2950 C850 Emerging Technologies 2 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSCLSA 201712 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 87
Bachelor of Science, Computer Science
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science prepares students for a career in the high demand field of Computer
Science. Upon program completion, students will apply their learned knowledge and skills in the designing, developing
and optimizing of systems to meet current and future industry needs. The curriculum includes innovative courses in
programming and logic, architecture and systems, data structures, project management, artificial intelligence, along
with the theory and science of computing.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
MATH 2100 C958 Calculus I 4 1
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
MATH 2800 C959 Discrete Mathematics I 4 3
MATH 2810 C960 Discrete Mathematics II 4 3
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 4
ICSC 3120 C952 Computer Architecture 3 4
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 4
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
ITEC 3014 C482 Software I 6 5
ITEC 3023 C195 Software II - Advanced Java Concepts 6 6
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 6
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 6
ICSC 3100 C950 Data Structures and Algorithms II 4 7
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ITAS 2010 C836 Fundamentals of Information Security 3 7
ITEC 2211 C191 Operating Systems for Programmers 3 7
ITEC 2213 C188 Software Engineering 4 8
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 8
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 8
DTMG 3310 C993 Structured Query Language 4 8
ICSC 3110 C951 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence 3 9
BSCS 201809 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 88
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 3150 C857 Software Quality Assurance 3 9
ICSC 3130 C964 Computer Science Capstone 4 9
Total CUs: 120
BSCS 201809 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 89
Bachelor of Science, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
To meet an increasing demand for cybersecurity professionals, the Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity and
Information Assurance (BSCSIA) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and experience in risk
management and digital forensics to safeguard infrastructure and secure data through continuity planning and disaster
recovery operations. Courses deliver proven methods for information security using software analysis techniques, web
engineering, cloud management, and networking strategies to prevent, detect, and mitigate cyberattacks. This
program features nationally recognized, high demand certifications in the field of cybersecurity.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
ITAS 2010 C836 Fundamentals of Information Security 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 2
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 3
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 3
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 4
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 4
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 4
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
ITAS 2020 C837 Managing Web Security 4 5
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 6
ITAS 2040 C839 Introduction to Cryptography 4 6
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 6
ITAS 2050 C840 Digital Forensics in Cybersecurity 4 7
ITAS 3050 C845 Information Systems Security 4 7
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 7
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITAS 3010 C841 Legal Issues in Information Security 4 8
ITAS 3031 C838 Managing Cloud Security 4 8
ITAS 3040 C844 Emerging Technologies in Cybersecurity 4 8
BSCSIA 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 90
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITAS 3030 C843 Managing Information Security 6 9
ITAS 3020 C842 Cyber Defense and Countermeasures 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSCSIA 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 91
Bachelor of Science, Data Management/Data Analytics
The B.S. in Data Management/Data Analytics is designed to prepare science professionals who can set up a database
environment, design databases, acqiure data, wrangle it, analyze it, and visualize it to different audiences as part of
the decision-making process
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 3
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 4
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 5
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 5
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 5
ITSW 3121 C859 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 5
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 6
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 6
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
DTMG 3310 C993 Structured Query Language 4 7
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
DTSC 3320 C755 Database Server Administration 6 8
DTSC 3210 C749 Introduction to Data Science 4 8
DTMG 3210 C750 Data Wrangling with MongoDB 3 8
DTAN 3210 C751 Data Analysis with R 2 9
DTSC 3220 C753 Machine Learning 3 9
DTAN 3220 C939 Data Visualization 2 9
BSDMDA 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 92
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 9
DTAN 4020 C756 Data Analytics 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 121
BSDMDA 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 93
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology
The WGU Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (IT) program provides a solid foundation in computer
information systems and technologies. In addition to the IT content, the degree program includes a broad collegiate-
level education. The program is primarily designed for those seeking a career or to advance their current career as
information technology professionals by developing levels of expertise required for increased responsibility in the
information technology field. The foundation of the Bachelor of Science program consists of six domains of study:
systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, and
web development. At the end of the program, students develop a comprehensive portfolio and complete a capstone
project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 2
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 3
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 3
MATH 1709 C277 Finite Mathematics 4 4
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 4
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 5
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 5
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 6
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 6
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ITEC 2901 C849 Cloud Foundations 3 7
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 7
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 7
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 8
BSIT 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 94
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 8
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 8
ITEC 3655 C851 Linux Foundations 3 9
ITEC 2950 C850 Emerging Technologies 2 9
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 121
BSIT 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 95
Bachelor of Science, Network Operations and Security
In response to an increasing demand for network operations and security professionals, the Bachelor of Science,
Network Operations and Security (BSNOS) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and
experience in network design, network operations, network security, and cloud security to manage network
infrastructure and secure data through effective IT policies and procedures. Courses deliver proven methods for
network administration to ensure uptime, performance, resources, and security of networks to meet the needs of the
organization. The program builds upon a core IT curriculum: systems and services, networking and security, scripting
and programming, data management, business of IT, and web development. Students seeking the BS, Network
Operations and Security degree demonstrate additional competencies in this area by taking and passing specific
industry certification exams in major network systems.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 3
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 4
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 4
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 5
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 5
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 5
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 5
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 6
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 3655 C851 Linux Foundations 3 7
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 7
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 7
ITEC 3731 C246 Fundamentals of Interconnecting Network Devices 6 7
ITEC 3751 C247 Interconnecting Network Devices 6 8
ITNW 3000 C917 Network Design Foundations 4 8
BSNOS 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 96
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 8
ITEC 2901 C849 Cloud Foundations 3 9
ITEC 3831 C299 Designing Customized Security 6 9
ITEC 2950 C850 Emerging Technologies 2 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSNOS 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 97
Bachelor of Science, Software Development
The B.S. in Software Development program is designed to meet this growing need while preparing experienced
information technology professionals for successful careers as software designers and developers.
The program focuses on software application development and it is offered in two tracks that utilize either Java or C#
to achieve similar objectives.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 2
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 3
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 3
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 4
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 4
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 4
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 4
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 5
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 5
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 5
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2211 C191 Operating Systems for Programmers 3 6
ITEC 2213 C188 Software Engineering 4 6
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 7
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 7
ITSW 3215 C968 Software I – C# 6 7
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 8
ITSW 3110 C856 User Experience Design 3 8
ITSW 3225 C969 Software II – Advanced C# 6 8
ITSW 3150 C857 Software Quality Assurance 3 9
ITSW 3015 C971 Mobile Application Development Using C# 3 9
DTMG 3310 C993 Structured Query Language 4 9
BSITSWC 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 98
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 4904 C868 Software Development Capstone 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSITSWC 201901 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 99
Master of Science, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance prepares security professionals to protect an
organization's operations in the cyberspace by providing them with the tools, techniques, and standards required to
prevent, detect, and counteract cyberattacks. The program not only focuses on keeping infrastructure safe but also the
assurance of information covering subjects ranging from cryptography to business continuity planning and disaster
recovery
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITAS 5010 C725 Information Security and Assurance 2 1
ITSA 5220 C700 Secure Network Design 3 1
ITAS 5290 C726 Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering 4 1
ITAS 5300 C701 Ethical Hacking 4 2
ITAS 6300 C702 Forensics and Network Intrusion 4 2
ITAS 6310 C727 Cybersecurity Management I - Strategic 4 3
ITAS 6330 C795 Cybersecurity Management II - Tactical 4 3
ITAS 5230 C706 Secure Software Design 2 4
ITAS 6450 C796 Cybersecurity Graduate Capstone 3 4
Total CUs: 30
MSCSIA 201902 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 100
Master of Science, Data Analytics
The MS Data Analytics degree prepares statisticians, analysts, data managers, programmers, and other business and
IT professionals for successful and rewarding careers in the high-demand field of data analytics through cutting-edge
courses in data mining, manipulation, analysis, and visualization. The program empowers graduates to use powerful
tools to implement industry standard techniques in order to solve problems, identify trends, and make predictions.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 5110 C740 Fundamentals of Data Analytics 2 1
DTAN 6120 C995 SQL for Data Analysis 4 1
DTAN 6110 C745 Advanced Data Visualization 3 1
MATH 5720 C741 Statistics for Data Analysis 3 2
ITSW 5100 C996 Programming in Python 2 2
DTAN 5210 C743 Data Mining and Analytics I 3 2
ITSW 5120 C997 R for Data Analysts 1 3
DTAN 6220 C744 Data Mining and Analytics II 3 3
DTAN 6310 C747 SAS Programming I: Fundamentals 4 3
DTAN 6320 C748 SAS Programming II: Business Analysis Applications 4 4
DTAN 6410 C772 Data Analytics Graduate Capstone 3 4
Total CUs: 32
MSDA 201812 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 101
Master of Science, Information Technology Management
The Master of Science in Information Technology Management is a competency-based degree program that
represents a path for successful IT professionals to launch their careers and build them to an executive level. The
graduate will advance his or her knowledge and skills through a practical, real-world program based on sound
principles of Information Technology revolving around three primary themes: communication, technical competence
and strategic vision: effective communication as essential to management at all levels, in all areas of human endeavor;
and strategic vision that takes individuals and organizations beyond immediate difficulties and successes to a
perception of future challenges and preparations to meet those challenges.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITIM 5530 C954 Information Technology Management 3 1
ITEC 6500 C948 Technical Communication 3 1
INTE 5300 LZT2 Power, Influence and Leadership 3 1
ITIM 6510 C928 Financial Management for IT Professionals 2 2
ITIM 6520 C929 IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy 2 2
ITIM 6500 C927 Managing Technology Operations and Innovation 3 2
ITEC 6400 MBT2 Technological Globalization 3 2
ITEC 5320 C783 Project Management 4 3
INTE 5200 C962 Current and Emerging Technology 3 3
ITEC 6901 C498 MS, Information Technology Management Capstone 4 3
Total CUs: 30
MSITM 201808 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 102
Teachers College
Special Teachers College Program Requirements: Initial Licensure Programs
http://www.wgu.edu/education/teacher_certification
Students who are seeking initial teacher licensure in a bachelor’s, post-baccalaureate, or master’s of arts in teaching
program must complete WGU and/or state-specific requirements (http://www.wgu.edu/education/teaching_license)
throughout their program, including:
1. Pass a Background Check
WGU requires all teacher certification program candidates to provide the university with verification of a cleared
background check prior to entering the classroom for preclinical experiences and Demonstration Teaching. Previously
completed background checks may not satisfy WGU background check requirements. In some states, more than one
background check may be required. In addition, most states require that applicants for teacher certification complete a
background check for the Department of Education prior to submitting all application paperwork. This is a necessary
precaution designed to prevent those who may pose a danger to the students in the classroom. Candidates must be at
least 18 years of age before they may begin the application process or participate in preclinical experiences and
Demonstration Teaching.
2. Pass Basic Skills, Content, and Pedagogy Exams
Each state has specific testing requirements that must be met or completed in addition to completing a teaching degree
program at WGU. WGU requires students to complete and pass:
● Basic Skills Exam: Pass the Basic Skills Exam required by your state for certification, or a designated Basic Skills
Exam if your state does not require one.
● Content Exam: You must pass the designated Content Exam(s) required by your state in order to graduate from
your program.
● WGU Program Exam: WGU also requires you to pass a specific Praxis exam to graduate from your program (with
the exception of Elementary programs), often in addition to any certification exam required by your state.
● Pedagogy Exam: Finally, some states require the completion of a Pedagogy Exam, which assess your knowledge
of teaching methods.
3. Complete Preclinical Experiences
In preparation for your formal Demonstration Teaching (described in step 5 below), you will complete preclinical
experiences designed to introduce you to the classroom through a series of activities, including observations and lesson
planning. Working under the guidance of a WGU Placement Specialist, you will be asked to make arrangements with a
local school to complete these activities.
4. Complete a Term of In-Classroom Student Teaching (Demonstration Teaching)
Demonstration Teaching (or student teaching) is a critical component of any teaching degree program. This in-
classroom experience is invaluable in helping to integrate the academic knowledge and teaching skills you’ve developed
to this point into a practical application that will prepare you to tackle the challenges of your own classroom effectively
and with confidence.
Demonstration Teaching (DT) at WGU covers the competencies required for in-classroom proficiency. DT is a full-time,
supervised, in-classroom experience of a minimum of 12–20 weeks. During Demonstration Teaching, you will be hosted
by an experienced teacher. You will undergo a series of at least six observations by a Clinical Supervisor and also
receive evaluations from your Host Teacher to evaluate your performance based on accepted professional standards.
As you approach your Demonstration Teaching, a WGU Placement Specialist will work with you to set up your
placement. The process of scheduling your DT placement may take up to six months. You may be required to assist in
the process of setting up your placement. In some cases, you may be required to commute up to two hours (or in rare
cases longer than this). Note that students are not permitted to work during their Demonstration Teaching experience.
You must be at least 18 years of age before you may begin the application process or participate in preclinical
experiences or Demonstration Teaching.
Demonstration Teaching may not be waived and prior experience may not be used to satisfy this requirement as you
must demonstrate competency in the classroom in order to complete your WGU degree program.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 103
5. Meet Any Additional State Certification Requirements
Some states have additional requirements for certification, such as coursework not included in your WGU program, CPR
certification, or workshops. The Teacher Licensure Department maintains information on individual state requirements.
Special Teachers College Program Requirements: Advanced Programs
http://www.wgu.edu/education/masters_degree
Certain Teachers College Graduate Programs have specific WGU and/or state-specific requirements, including all
Special Education, Mathematics Education, Science Education, English Language Learning, and Educational
Leadership programs. These requirements include:
1. Pass a Background Check
WGU requires students in specified graduate programs to provide the university with verification of a cleared
background check prior to entering the classroom for any field experiences. Previously completed background checks
may not satisfy WGU background check requirements. In some states, more than one background check may be
required. In some cases, verification of a valid teaching certificate may satisfy the background check requirement.
Students should consult with the Field Experiences and Teacher Licensure Departments for more information on
background check requirements.
2. Pass Content Exam(s)
WGU requires students to complete and pass:
● WGU Program Exam: WGU requires you to pass a specific Praxis exam to graduate from your program, often in
addition to any certification exam required by your state.
● Content Exam: If you plan to apply for an additional endorsement/certificate upon completion of your program, you
must pass the designated Content Exam(s) required by your state in order to graduate from your program.
Educational Leadership students must always pass the state required content exam to graduate, regardless of
whether or not they plan to apply for certification.
3. Complete Field Experiences
Students in advanced programs complete a field experience or practicum, often as a culminating experience at the end
of the program. Field experiences vary by program and state. Minimum requirements at WGU include:
● Mathematics Education and Science Education: Two-week* unit of instruction.
● Special Education: 240-hour* practicum.
● English Language Learning: 30-hour* practicum
● Educational Leadership: 150-hour* practicum.
* Some states may require additional hours beyond WGU’s minimum requirements. For example, some Educational
Leadership students may be required to complete 540 or more hours depending on state requirements. The Field
Experiences and Teacher Licensure Departments maintain information on current state requirements and detailed field
experience requirements by program.
4. Meet Any Additional State Certification Requirements
Students who plan to seek an additional endorsement/certificate upon completion of their program may need to
complete additional state-specific requirements for certification, such as coursework not included in your WGU program,
CPR certification, or workshops. The Teacher Licensure Department maintains information on individual state
requirements.
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 104
Bachelor of Arts, Elementary Education
The Bachelor of Arts in Elementary Education is a competency-based program that enables teacher candidates to
earn a Bachelor of Arts degree and a K-8 teaching certificate online (except for demonstration teaching, which is an in-
classroom component and options for in-classroom field experiences prior to demonstration teaching). This program
consists of four balanced areas of study (domains), competency-based assessments, and the creation of a
professional portfolio. This program includes clinical experiences that prepare teacher candidates for the classroom.
Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-
based observations of classroom instruction. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative
preclinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration
teaching in a real classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness and Wellness 4 1
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 2
MATH 1310 C460 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
MATH 1320 C461 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
MATH 1330 C462 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
EDUC 2240 EFP1 Cultural Studies and Diversity 3 5
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 6
EDUC 3220 C368 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary 3 6
Education
EDUC 4211 C909 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 3211 C970 Children’s Literature 3 7
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 7
EDUC 4240 C108 Elementary Science Methods 3 7
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 7
EDUC 4250 C104 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 8
BAELED 201808 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 105
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4260 C105 Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 3 8
EDUC 4270 C367 Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods 3 8
EDUC 3277 C732 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 3410 C935 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 3 9
EDUC 4921 C307 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4922 C308 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4923 C309 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4924 C310 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4750 C828 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 120
BAELED 201808 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 106
Bachelor of Arts, Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure)
The Bachelor of Arts, Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure), Cross-Categorical Model, is a
competency-based program that enables teacher candidates to earn a Bachelor of Arts in Special Education and
Elementary Education (BASPEE) degree and leads to an initial dual licensure in Special Education (K-12) and
Elementary Education (K-8) teaching certificate online (except for the in-classroom component Demonstration
Teaching and options for in-classroom field experiences prior to Demonstration Teaching). This program consists of
four balanced areas of study (domains), competency-based assessments, and the creation of a professional portfolio.
It includes a supervised teaching practicum that consists of two placements, one in an elementary classroom and one
in a middle or secondary level classroom. Both placements should support the academic needs of students with mild-
to-moderate disabilities. The Special Education Cross-Categorical Model is a specifically designed program for the
education and training of prospective teachers to work with students with mild/moderate disabilities in a variety of
school settings, including inclusionary K-12 classrooms, resource rooms or self-contained classrooms; serve as
teacher of record K-8, as well as teach all basic school subjects in the elementary education classroom. With the
successful completion of required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional
recommendation for certification in special education and in elementary education. During the required major or
sequence of the standard path, students gain knowledge, skills, and competencies essential to effective teaching while
being involved in field-based experiences.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 1
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 2
MATH 1310 C460 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 2
MATH 1320 C461 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 3
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness and Wellness 4 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
EDUC 2240 EFP1 Cultural Studies and Diversity 3 3
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 4
MATH 1330 C462 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
SPED 4513 D002 Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education 3 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 5
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 6
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
EDUC 3223 C133 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary and 3 6
Special Education
EDUC 4240 C108 Elementary Science Methods 3 7
BASPEE 201905 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 107
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SPED 4512 D001 Behavioral Support Strategies for K-12 Learners with Mild to 4 7
Moderate Exceptionalities
EDUC 4211 C909 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 3 7
SPED 4514 D003 Assessment in Special Education 3 7
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 8
SPED 4515 D004 Collaborating with Partners for Student Success 3 8
EDUC 4270 C367 Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods 3 8
EDUC 3277 C732 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4250 C104 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 9
EDUC 4260 C105 Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 3 9
EDUC 3211 C970 Children’s Literature 3 9
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 9
SPED 4516 D005 Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild 3 10
to Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 4517 D006 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Elementary 2 10
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 4518 D007 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Secondary 2 10
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities
EDUC 3413 C934 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education 3 10
EDUC 4951 C311 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 1 and 2
EDUC 4952 C312 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4953 C313 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 4 and 5
EDUC 4954 C314 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 6 and Final
EDUC 4751 C829 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary and Special 2 11
Education
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 11
EDUC 4989 C340 Cohort Seminar in Special Education 3 11
Total CUs: 140
BASPEE 201905 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 108
Bachelor of Arts, Special Education, Mild to Moderate
The Bachelor of Arts, Special Education, Mild-to-Moderate is a competency-based program that enables teacher
candidates to earn a Bachelor of Arts, Special Education, Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities (BASPMM) degree which
can lead to an initial licensure in Special Education (K-12). The Special Education, Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities is
a specifically designed program for the preparation of prospective teachers to work with students with mild to moderate
disabilities in a variety of educational settings, including inclusionary K-12 classrooms, resource rooms or self-
contained classrooms. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general education, through
methods of instruction, assessment, and classroom management to special education courses for teaching students
with exceptionalities. Candidates develop and refine their skills through a series of sequential field-based experiences
beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction, followed by an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical
teaching experience in a K-12 setting, and culminating with a supervised teaching experience that consists of two
placements, one in an elementary special education and another in a secondary level special education setting. Both
placements support the academic needs of students with mild-to-moderate disabilities.With the successful completion
of program expectations and required assessments in the major area of teaching, the candidate can receive
institutional recommendation for certification in special education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 1310 C460 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
MATH 1320 C461 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 3
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
EDUC 2240 EFP1 Cultural Studies and Diversity 3 3
MATH 1330 C462 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
SPED 4513 D002 Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education 3 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 5
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 6
EDUC 3224 D011 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Special Education 3 6
EDUC 4211 C909 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 6
SPED 4512 D001 Behavioral Support Strategies for K-12 Learners with Mild to 4 7
Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 4514 D003 Assessment in Special Education 3 7
BASPMM 201812 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 109
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3279 D010 Disciplinary Literacy 3 7
SPED 4515 D004 Collaborating with Partners for Student Success 3 8
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 8
EDUC 3211 C970 Children’s Literature 3 8
SPED 4516 D005 Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild 3 8
to Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 4517 D006 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Elementary 2 9
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 4518 D007 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Secondary 2 9
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities
EDUC 3420 D009 Preclinical Experiences in Special Education 3 9
EDUC 4047 D012 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4049 D013 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 9
3 and Midterm
EDUC 4050 D014 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4051 D015 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 10
6 and Final
EDUC 4754 D008 Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 11
EDUC 4989 C340 Cohort Seminar in Special Education 3 11
Total CUs: 124
BASPMM 201812 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 110
Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
The Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based program that prepares
students to be licensed as mathematics teachers in middle grades. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. This program consists of
work in General Education, Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, Mathematics Content, and Instructional
Planning and Presentation. This program includes clinical experiences that prepare teacher candidates for the
classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning
with; video-based observations of classroom instruction. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 2708 C306 Finite Mathematics 4 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 2
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
MATH 3610 C972 College Geometry 4 3
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 3
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 3
MATH 2505 C280 Probability and Statistics I 4 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 4
MATH 4305 C903 Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge 2 4
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 5
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
EDUC 2240 EFP1 Cultural Studies and Diversity 3 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 6
EDUC 4315 C284 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 4 6
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 4112 C965 Teaching in the Middle School 2 7
EDUC 3221 C113 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 3 7
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 7
EDUC 3101 C879 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 8
BSMEMG 201810 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 111
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3411 C930 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 3 8
EDUC 4305 C285 Mathematics History and Technology 4 8
EDUC 4932 C315 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4933 C316 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4934 C317 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4935 C318 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4752 C830 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BSMEMG 201810 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 112
Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students to be licensed as mathematics teachers in middle grades. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of
work in Mathematics Content, Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation
and Mathematics Education. This program includes clinical experiences that prepare teacher candidates for the
classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning
with video-based observations of classroom instruction. Observations prepare candidates for authentic collaborative
pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration
teaching in a real classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
MATH 2505 C280 Probability and Statistics I 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
MATH 3610 C972 College Geometry 4 2
MATH 2000 C362 Calculus I 4 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 5
MATH 2415 C283 Calculus II 4 5
MATH 2520 TQC1 Probability and Statistics II 3 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
MATH 3311 C656 Calculus III 3 6
MATH 4315 C897 Mathematics: Content Knowledge 2 6
MATH 3100 C877 Mathematical Modeling and Applications 3 6
MATH 3310 RKT1 Linear Algebra 3 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 6
MATH 3320 QDT1 Abstract Algebra 3 7
EDUC 4315 C284 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 4 7
MATH 3104 C885 Advanced Calculus 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 8
BSMES 201810 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 113
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3221 C113 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 3 8
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 3101 C879 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 8
EDUC 3102 C881 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 9
EDUC 3103 C883 Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 9
EDUC 3414 C932 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 3 9
EDUC 4305 C285 Mathematics History and Technology 4 9
EDUC 4932 C315 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4933 C316 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4934 C317 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4935 C318 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4752 C830 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 138
BSMES 201810 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 114
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Middle Grades)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Middle Grades)is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students to be licensed as science teachers in the middle grades. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepares teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom.The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, Science Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 4
BIO 3105 C652 Heredity and Genetics 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 5
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 5
PHYS 2100 RNT1 General Physics 5 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 6
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
GEOS 2104 C894 Astronomy 3 6
GEOS 2102 C890 Ecology and Environmental Science 3 7
GEOS 3513 C925 Earth: Inside and Out 4 7
SCIE 4405 C902 Middle School Science: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 8
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 8
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 8
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BSSEMG 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 115
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4112 C965 Teaching in the Middle School 2 9
EDUC 4117 C974 Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science 4 9
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 9
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 10
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 10
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 124
BSSEMG 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 116
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education(Secondary Biological Science) is a competency based degree program
that prepares students to be licensed as secondary biology teachers. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom. The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Biology Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field
Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
BIO 2012 C875 Human Anatomy and Physiology 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 4
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
BIO 2102 C888 Molecular and Cellular Biology 4 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
BIO 3105 C652 Heredity and Genetics 3 5
BIO 2101 C654 Zoology 3 6
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
GEOS 2102 C890 Ecology and Environmental Science 3 6
BIO 3261 C736 Evolution 4 6
BIO 4405 C900 Biology: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 7
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BSSESB 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 117
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4113 C940 Science Methods—Secondary Biology 4 8
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BSSESB 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 118
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education(Secondary Chemistry) is a competency based degree program that
prepares students to be licensed as secondary chemistry teachers. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom. The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Chemistry Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field
Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 4
CHEM 2110 C373 General Chemistry I with Lab 4 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
CHEM 2210 C374 General Chemistry II with Lab 4 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
CHEM 3310 BVT1 Physical Chemistry 3 6
CHEM 3300 BWT1 Inorganic Chemistry 3 6
CHEM 2300 UQT1 Organic Chemistry 3 6
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
CHEM 3501 C624 Biochemistry 3 7
EDUC 3512 C264 Climate Change 4 7
CHEM 4405 C915 Chemistry: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 8
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 8
BSSESC 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 119
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 8
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4114 C941 Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry 4 9
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 9
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 10
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 10
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 129
BSSESC 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 120
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) is a competency based degree program that
prepares students to be licensed as secondary earth and space science teachers. All work in this degree program is
online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which
prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an
authentic, collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with
supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom. The program consists of work in General Education,
Foundations of Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Geosciences Content, Pedagogy, Science
Education, Field Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 3
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 3
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
PHYS 2100 RNT1 General Physics 5 4
GEOS 2101 C649 Geology I: Physical 4 5
GEOS 2103 C892 Geology II: Earth Systems 4 5
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 5
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
GEOS 2102 C890 Ecology and Environmental Science 3 6
GEOS 2104 C894 Astronomy 3 6
EDUC 3511 C263 The Ocean Systems 4 6
GEOS 4405 C898 Earth Science: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 7
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BSSESE 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 121
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4115 C942 Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science 4 8
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 124
BSSESE 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 122
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Physics)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education(Secondary Physics) is a competency based degree program that
prepares students to be licensed as secondary physics teachers All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom.The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Physics Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field
Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 3
PHYS 2102 C876 Conceptual Physics 5 3
PHYS 2300 BYT1 Physics: Mechanics 3 4
MATH 2415 C283 Calculus II 4 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
EDUC 3260 C913 Psychology for Educators 4 4
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 5
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 5
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 5
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 4 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
PHYS 2310 BZT1 Physics: Waves and Optics 3 6
EDUC 2416 C572 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 4 6
PHYS 2320 DPT1 Physics: Electricity and Magnetism 3 6
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 7
PHYS 3262 C738 Space, Time and Motion 4 7
PHYS 4405 C901 Physics: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 8
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 8
BSSESP 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 123
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 8
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4116 C943 Science Methods—Secondary Physics 4 9
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 9
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 10
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 10
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 131
BSSESP 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 124
Post-baccalaureate, Elementary Education
The Post-Baccalaureate, ElementaryEducation program is a competency-based program that enables teacher
candidates to earn an elementary educationteaching certificate online (except for the in-classroom component
demonstration teaching, and in-classroom field experiences prior to demonstration teaching). This program consists of
three balanced areas of study, performance- and competency-based assessments, and the creation of a professional
portfolio. This program includes clinical experiences that prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates
develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based
observations of classroom instruction. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical
teaching experiences in an elementary setting. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching
in a real classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5006 C551 Foundational Perspectives of Education 2 1
MATH 5010 C682 Mathematics for Elementary Educators 3 1
EDUC 5039 C973 Principles of Psychology, Child and Adolescent Development 3 1
for Educators
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 2
EDUC 5008 C553 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 2 2
EDUC 5009 C554 Educational Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5220 C141 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary 2 2
Education
EDUC 6207 C910 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 2 3
EDUC 6380 C380 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 2 3
EDUC 6203 C382 Elementary Science Methods 2 3
EDUC 6202 C381 Elementary Mathematics Methods 2 3
EDUC 6709 DWP2 Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods 1 4
EDUC 6711 DZP2 Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 1 4
EDUC 6713 EBP2 Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health 1 4
Methods
EDUC 5277 C733 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 4
EDUC 5302 C936 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 2 4
EDUC 6921 C323 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 5
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6922 C324 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 5
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6923 C325 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 5
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6924 C326 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 5
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6751 C873 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education 1 5
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 5
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 5
Total CUs: 47
PBELED 201807 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 125
Master of Arts in Teaching, Elementary Education
The Master of Arts in TeachingElementary Educationis a competency-based degree program that prepares students at
the graduate level both to be licensed to teachin an elementary settingand to develop significant skills in curriculum
development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the demonstration
teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter this program with a significant background in
education and then proceed through studies in Foundations of Teaching, Elementary Education Methods, Instructional
Planning and Presentation and Research Fundamentals. This program includes clinical experiences that prepare
teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction. Observations prepare
candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences
culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5006 C551 Foundational Perspectives of Education 2 1
MATH 5010 C682 Mathematics for Elementary Educators 3 1
EDUC 5039 C973 Principles of Psychology, Child and Adolescent Development 3 1
for Educators
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 2
EDUC 5008 C553 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 2 2
EDUC 5009 C554 Educational Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5220 C141 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary 2 2
Education
EDUC 6207 C910 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 2 3
EDUC 6380 C380 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 2 3
EDUC 6203 C382 Elementary Science Methods 2 3
EDUC 6202 C381 Elementary Mathematics Methods 2 3
EDUC 6709 DWP2 Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods 1 4
EDUC 6711 DZP2 Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 1 4
EDUC 6713 EBP2 Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health 1 4
Methods
EDUC 5277 C733 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 4
EDUC 5302 C936 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 2 4
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 5
EDUC 6921 C323 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 6
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6922 C324 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 6
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6923 C325 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 6
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6924 C326 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 6
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6751 C873 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education 1 6
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 6
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 6
Total CUs: 49
MATELED 201807 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 126
Master of Arts in Teaching, English Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, English Education(Secondary)is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students at the graduate level for licensure to teach English in a secondary setting, through the development of
pedagogical skills in English curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is
completed online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components,
which prepares teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a
series of sequential experiences beginning with; video-based observations of classroom instruction. Observations
prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical
experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom. Students enter this program with
an English major or equivalent and build on the existing knowledge base of English through the Foundations of
Teaching, Teacher Education Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation, English Pedagogy, video-based
classroom observation, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5006 C551 Foundational Perspectives of Education 2 1
EDUC 5039 C973 Principles of Psychology, Child and Adolescent Development 3 1
for Educators
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 1
EDUC 5008 C553 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 2 1
EDUC 5009 C554 Educational Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5246 C395 Instructional Planning and Presentation in English 2 2
EDUC 5276 C731 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 2
EDUC 5256 C945 Preclinical Experiences in English 2 2
EDUC 5275 C729 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 3
EDUC 5347 C396 English Pedagogy 3 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5348 C398 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 1 3 4
and 2
EDUC 5349 C399 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 3 3 4
and Midterm
EDUC 5350 C400 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 4 3 4
and 5
EDUC 5351 C401 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 6 3 4
and Final
EDUC 5252 C853 Teacher Performance Assessment in English 1 4
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 4
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 4
Total CUs: 41
MATEES 201807 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 127
Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts in Teaching-MathematicsEducation (Middle Grades)is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students at the graduate level both to be licensed to teach mathematics inmiddle gradesand to develop
significant skills in mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is
online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which
prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction. Observations prepare
candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences
culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom. Students enter this program with a significant
background in mathematics and then proceed through study in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning
and Presentation, Mathematics Education, video-based classroom observation, Pre-Clinical Experiences,
Demonstration Teaching, and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5006 C551 Foundational Perspectives of Education 2 1
EDUC 5039 C973 Principles of Psychology, Child and Adolescent Development 3 1
for Educators
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 1
EDUC 5008 C553 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 2 1
EDUC 5009 C554 Educational Assessment 2 2
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 2
EDUC 5276 C731 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 2
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 2
EDUC 5221 C142 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 2 3
EDUC 5275 C729 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 3
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5303 C931 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 3
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 4
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 6932 C327 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6933 C328 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6934 C329 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6935 C330 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 C914 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 1 5
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 5
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 5
Total CUs: 46
MATMEMG 201807 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 128
Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, MathematicsEducation (Secondary)is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students at the graduate level both to be licensed to teach mathematics in a secondary setting and to
develop significant skills in mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree
program is online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components,
which prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a
series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction. Observations
prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical
experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom. Students enter this program with a
significant background in mathematics and then proceed through study in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional
Planning and Presentation, Mathematics Education, video-based classroom observation, Pre-Clinical Experiences,
Demonstration Teaching and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5006 C551 Foundational Perspectives of Education 2 1
EDUC 5039 C973 Principles of Psychology, Child and Adolescent Development 3 1
for Educators
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 1
EDUC 5008 C553 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 2 1
EDUC 5009 C554 Educational Assessment 2 2
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 2
EDUC 5276 C731 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 2
EDUC 5221 C142 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 5275 C729 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 3
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5102 C882 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5103 C884 Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5306 C933 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 4
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 4
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 6932 C327 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6933 C328 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6934 C329 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6935 C330 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 5
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 C914 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 1 5
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 5
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 5
Total CUs: 48
MATMES 201807 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 129
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching (Secondary Science Education) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students at the graduate level to be licensed to teach secondaryscienceand supports development of significant skills
in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the exception
of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher candidates for
the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences
beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom. Students enter this program with a substantial background in science and
proceed through coursework in Foundations of Teaching, Pedagogy, Science Education, Research, video-based
classroom observation, Field Experiences, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5006 C551 Foundational Perspectives of Education 2 1
EDUC 5039 C973 Principles of Psychology, Child and Adolescent Development 3 1
for Educators
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 1
EDUC 5008 C553 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 2 1
EDUC 5009 C554 Educational Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5222 C143 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
EDUC 5304 C938 Preclinical Experiences in Science 2 2
EDUC 5276 C731 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 3
EDUC 5275 C729 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 3
EDUC 5041 C645 Science Methods 3 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 6942 C331 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 5
1 and 2
EDUC 6943 C332 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 5
and Midterm
EDUC 6944 C333 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 5
4 and 5
EDUC 6945 C334 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 5
and Final
EDUC 6903 C904 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 1 5
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 5
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 5
Total CUs: 43
MATSES 201807 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 130
Master of Science, Curriculum and Instruction
The Master of Science degree in Curriculum and Instruction is a competency-based program and represents a path for
K-12 educators and corporate trainers wishing to advance their knowledge and skills in the application of sound,
empirically-based principles of education to their instructional setting: curriculum content and pedagogy. Intended to be
practical, real-world, and application-based, the program revolves around four primary themes: Design, Evaluation,
Problem-solving, and Instructional Leadership. These four pillars are the foundations of a sound, empirically based
education that meet the needs of educational leaders in the 21st century. The principal competencies of this program
area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in curriculum, instruction, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5280 IYT2 Introduction to Curriculum Theory 2 1
EDUC 5281 IZT2 Learning Theories 2 1
EDUC 5282 JWT2 Instructional Theory 2 1
EDUC 5283 JXT2 Educational Psychology 2 1
EDUC 5284 JYT2 Curriculum Design 2 2
EDUC 5285 JZT2 Curriculum Evaluation 2 2
EDUC 5286 KAT2 Assessment for Student Learning 2 2
EDUC 5287 KBT2 Differentiated Instruction 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6011 C561 MS, Curriculum and Instruction Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MSCIN 201504 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 131
Master of Science, Special Education
The Master of Science in Special Education (MSSP) is a competency-based program that enables students to earn a
Master of Science in Special Education degree online. The MSSP includes content knowledge related to teaching
special education K-12 as well as research and instructional design. The capstone of the MSSP is a 240-hour
practicum. The hours for the practicum activities have been predetermined and are included in the MSSP Practicum
Log. Activities include: interviews, observations, IEP development and meetings, professional growth, professional
development readings, video reflections, teacher work sample (TWS aka Teacher Performance or TPA), and six
supervised observations. The most important aspect of this program is that it provides an avenue for professionals
currently engaged in a teaching career, whose content and pedagogy backgrounds are significant, to serve in our
country's elementary, middle, and high schools by teaching in special education in grades K-12. In order to matriculate
into the M.S. Special Education degree, students must have a valid teaching certificate.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SPED 6510 FCC2 Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal Issues, 3 1
Policies and Procedures
SPED 6520 FJC2 Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP 3 1
Development/Implementation
SPED 6530 EFV2 Behavioral Management and Intervention 3 1
SPED 6540 FLC2 Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and Culturally 2 2
Responsive Teaching
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 2
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 2
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6009 C540 MS SPED Teacher Work Sample 6 4
Total CUs: 31
MSSP 201504 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 132
Master of Science, Educational Leadership
The Master of Science in Educational Leadership is a competency-based degree program that prepares qualified K-12
educators to become state-licensed school principals. The foundation of the program's philosophy is to create
innovative instructional leaders for today's schools. The program is aligned to the NELP, SPA, and PSEL standards.
The candidate learns contemporary theories while engaging in practices related to leading in 21st century schools,
applying new learning at local practicum sites. Graduates of this program enter the field having demonstrated
competencies in leadership practices and ethics, school law, exceptional child services, leading in inclusive schools
with diverse populations, instructional leadership, human resource leadership, school financial management, systems
and operations management, strategic planning, data literacy, and educational inquiry. The candidate is guided
through the program by qualified program mentors, course instructors, and school leaders. The cumulative program
activity consists of a capstone action research project that is conducted in the K-12 school setting.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5288 D016 Leadership Foundations and Ethics 3 1
EDUC 5289 D017 School Law 3 1
EDUC 5292 D020 Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning 3 1
EDUC 5291 D019 Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices 3 2
EDUC 5293 D021 Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction 3 2
EDUC 5290 D018 Leading Inclusive Schools 3 2
EDUC 5294 D022 People and Talent in Educational Leadership 3 3
EDUC 5295 D023 School Financial Leadership 3 3
EDUC 5296 D034 Systems Management and School Operations 3 3
EDUC 5298 D036 Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional 3 4
Practices
EDUC 5297 D035 Educational Inquiry 3 4
EDUC 5299 D037 Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and 3 4
Operations
EDUC 5300 D038 Educational Leadership Capstone 3 5
Total CUs: 39
MSEDL 201905 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 133
Master of Arts, English Language Learning (PreK-12)
The Master of Arts in English Language Learning (PreK-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings and to develop
significant skills in ELL curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes ELL Content and Methodology, Research Fundamentals, and Instructional Design. All students complete a
capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar 3 1
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 2
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 3
EDUC 6754 C360 Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning 1 4
Total CUs: 30
MAELLP12 201501 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 134
Master of Education, Instructional Design
The Master of Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares individuals to improve education and
training results by effectively using technology to support teaching, learning, and performance improvement
endeavors. The principal competencies of this program area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in instructional
design, technology integration, measurement and evaluation, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 1
EDUC 5271 JNT2 Instructional Design Analysis 2 1
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 1
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 1
EDUC 3252 MEC1 Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation 2 2
EDUC 6723 JRT2 Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation 2 2
EDUC 6724 JST2 Evaluation Process and Recommendation 2 2
EDUC 6722 JQT2 Issues in Measurement and Evaluation 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6030 C636 MED, Instructional Design Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MEDID 201504 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 135
Master of Education, Learning and Technology
The Master of Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares individuals to improve education and
training results by effectively using technology to support teaching, learning, and performance improvement
endeavors. The principal competencies of this program area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in instructional
design, technology integration, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 1
EDUC 5271 JNT2 Instructional Design Analysis 2 1
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 1
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 1
EDUC 6726 TDT1 Technology Design Portfolio 2 2
EDUC 6727 TET1 Issues in Technology Integration 2 2
EDUC 6725 TAT2 Technology Production 4 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6021 C626 MED, Learning and Technology Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MEDLT 201504 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 136
Master of Arts, Mathematics Education (K-6)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (K-6) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers both to teach mathematics in grades K - 6 and to develop significant skills in mathematics curriculum
development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online, and includes Mathematics Content and
Research Fundamentals. All students complete a Capstone Project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5210 AOA2 Number Sense and Functions 4 1
MATH 5220 AUA2 Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities 4 1
MATH 5230 AVA2 Geometry and Statistics 4 2
EDUC 6836 MFT2 Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense 2 2
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6029 C635 MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MAMEK6 201504 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 137
Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in middle grades and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, Mathematics Education and Research Fundamentals. All students complete a culminating
Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5015 C912 College Algebra 3 1
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 1
MATH 6321 C647 Trigonometry and Precalculus 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5030 C992 College Geometry 2 2
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 2
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 2
MATH 6711 C613 Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge 1 2
MATH 5410 QJT2 Calculus I 2 2
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 6753 C887 MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
Total CUs: 32
MAMEMG 201810 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 138
Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in middle grades and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Middle School Mathematics Content and Mathematics Education. All students complete a culminating Teacher Work
Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 6321 C647 Trigonometry and Precalculus 2 1
MATH 5030 C992 College Geometry 2 1
MATH 5406 C363 Calculus I 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5420 CQC2 Calculus II 2 2
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 2
MATH 5520 TQC2 Probability and Statistics II 2 2
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 2
EDUC 5102 C882 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5103 C884 Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 3
MATH 6331 C612 Mathematics: Content Knowledge 1 3
MATH 5100 C878 Mathematical Modeling and Applications 2 3
MATH 6311 C657 Calculus III 2 4
MATH 6310 RKT2 Linear Algebra 2 4
MATH 6320 QDT2 Abstract Algebra 2 4
MATH 5104 C886 Advanced Calculus 2 4
EDUC 6752 C874 MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance 6 5
Assessment
Total CUs: 39
MAMES 201810 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 139
Master of Arts Science Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts Science Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers for an endorsement in middle levelgeneral science and provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
General Science Content, Biology Content, Geosciences Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
BIO 5111 C907 Introduction to Biology 2 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
BIO 5105 C653 Heredity and Genetics 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
PHYS 5100 RNT2 General Physics 3 2
GEOS 5104 C895 Astronomy 2 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 3
GEOS 5513 C926 Earth: Inside and Out 3 3
SCIE 6405 C616 Middle School Science: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 3
EDUC 5048 C975 Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science 3 4
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 34
MASEMG 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 140
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondary biology and provides the opportunity to develop
skills in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes General Science Content, Biology Content, and Science Education courses. All students complete a
culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
BIO 5111 C907 Introduction to Biology 2 1
BIO 5120 C870 Human Anatomy and Physiology 3 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
BIO 5106 C889 Molecular and Cellular Biology 3 2
BIO 5105 C653 Heredity and Genetics 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
BIO 5101 C655 Zoology 2 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 3
BIO 5247 C737 Evolution 3 3
BIO 6405 C614 Biology: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5044 C976 Science Methods—Secondary Biology 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 33
MASESB 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 141
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
The Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers for an endorsement insecondary chemistry and provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Chemistry Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
CHEM 5409 C672 General Chemistry I with Lab 3 1
CHEM 5410 C673 General Chemistry II with Lab 3 1
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 2
CHEM 5310 BVT2 Physical Chemistry 2 2
CHEM 5300 BWT2 Inorganic Chemistry 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
CHEM 5250 AIT2 Organic Chemistry 2 3
SCIE 5501 C625 Biochemistry 2 3
EDUC 5512 C267 Climate Change 3 3
CHEM 6405 C617 Chemistry: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5045 C977 Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry 3 4
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 34
MASESC 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 142
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondaryearth and space science and provides the
opportunity to develop skills in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree
program is online and includes Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Earth Sciences Content, and Science
Education courses. All students complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
PHYS 5100 RNT2 General Physics 3 1
GEOS 5101 C650 Geology I: Physical 3 1
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
GEOS 5103 C893 Geology II: Earth Systems 3 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 2
GEOS 5104 C895 Astronomy 2 2
EDUC 5511 C266 The Ocean Systems 3 3
GEOS 6405 C618 Earth Science: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5046 C978 Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 3
Total CUs: 32
MASESE 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 143
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Physics)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Physics) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondary physicsand provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Physics Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 1
PHYS 5101 C659 Conceptual Physics 3 1
PHYS 5150 BYT2 Physics: Mechanics 2 2
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 2
PHYS 5310 BZT2 Physics: Waves and Optics 2 2
PHYS 5320 DPT2 Physics: Electricity and Magnetism 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 3
PHYS 5248 C739 Space, Time and Motion 3 3
PHYS 6405 C615 Physics: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5052 C979 Science Methods—Secondary Physics 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 32
MASESP 201806 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 144
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (PreK-12)
The English Language Learning (ELL) Endorsement Preparation Program is a competency-based program that
prepares already licensed teachers to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings. All work in
this degree program is online and includes ELL content and methodology.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar 3 1
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 2
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 3
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
Total CUs: 25
ENDELL 201112 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 145
Endorsement Preparation Program, Educational Leadership
The Endorsement Preparation Program in Educational Leadership is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students at the graduate level to become licensed as school principals. The program's philosophy is based
on that of the school principal as the school's instructional team leader. Work in this endorsement program takes place
in a case study format and utilizes a case study school site or district. Students also complete a practicum working
closely with a school administrator in a practicum school site. Practicum activities take place at both the elementary
(K-6) and secondary (7-12) levels, and occur during the concluding term of the program. The program is aligned to the
ELCC 2011 standards.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3248 LPT1 Performance Excellence Criteria for Educational Leaders 4 1
EDUC 3251 LWT1 Workforce Focus for Educational Leaders 4 1
EDUC 3247 LNT1 Process Management for Educational Leaders 3 2
EDUC 6728 TVT2 Governance, Finance, Law, and Leadership for Principals 6 2
EDUC 3250 LST1 Strategic Planning for Educational Leaders 2 3
EDUC 3245 LFT1 Student, Stakeholder, and Market Focus for Educational 5 3
Leaders
EDUC 3246 LMT1 Measurement, Analysis, and Knowledge Management for 4 3
Educational Leaders
EDUC 3244 LEC1 Comprehensive Educational Leadership Integration 2 4
EDUC 3249 LRT1 Practicum in Educational Leadership 7 4
Total CUs: 37
ENDEDL 201209 © Western Governors University 3/21/19 146
Courses
AFT2 - Accreditation Audit - Accreditation Audit covers regulatory audits, resource assessment, quality improvement, patient care improvement,
organization plans, risk management, effective interaction, and compliance as evidenced during an accreditation audit.
AIT2 - Organic Chemistry - Organic Chemistry focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize
and group organic compounds in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity based on common bonds found within an organic compound.
AMT2 - Service Line Development - Service Line Development will address how to critically assess the competitive marketplace as well as the
internal environment to establish a new line of business. Topics include needs assessment, international healthcare trends, service line management,
revenue analysis, costs and productivity, communication, negotiation, health policy, health legislation, and facilities management, which are variables
in the evaluation process.
AOA2 - Number Sense and Functions - Number Sense and Functions is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of
work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as
number sense, patterns and functions, integers and order of operations, fractions, decimals, and percentages.
ASA1 - Assessment Theory and Practice - Assessment Theory and Practice focuses on issues central to assessment in the ELL environment,
including high-stakes testing, standardized tests, placement and exit assessment, formative and summative assessments, and making adaptations in
assessments to meet the needs of ELL students.
ASC1 - Marketing Management Concepts - Marketing Management Concepts prepares students to learn core principles in marketing management.
Topics include a wide array of marketing management concepts such as the buyer decision process, segmenting markets, competitive advantage,
product mix management theory, price policy, distribution strategy, and sales management. This course is completed in conjunction with AST1.
AST1 - Marketing Management Tasks - Marketing Management Tasks is completed in conjunction with ASC1. Students apply concepts of marketing
management to specific activities designed to prepare students for real world scenarios. Topics include a wide array of marketing management
concepts such as the buyer decision process, segmenting markets, competitive advantage, product mix management theory, price policy, distribution
strategy, and sales management.
AUA2 - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities is a
performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an
original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as coordinate pairs and graphing, ratios and proportional reasoning, and equations and
inequalities.
AVA2 - Geometry and Statistics - Geometry and Statistics is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This
portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as geometry and
measurement, statistics and probability.
BVT1 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics,
reaction kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BVT2 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics,
reaction kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BWT1 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of Inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the
properties and behavior of any compound avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry:
the structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BWT2 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of Inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the
properties and behavior of any compound avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry:
the structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BYT1 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BYT2 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BZT1 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics. Students will
study basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light with even further applications to optical instruments. They will
also learn about thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
BZT2 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics.Students will
study basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light with even further applications to optical instruments. They will
also learn about thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
C100 - Introduction to Humanities - This introductory humanities course allows students to practice essential writing, communication, and critical
thinking skills necessary to engage in civic and professional interactions as mature, informed adults. Whether through studying literature, visual and
performing arts, or philosophy, all humanities courses stress the need to form reasoned, analytical, and articulate responses to cultural and creative
works. Studying a wide variety of creative works allows students to more effectively enter the global community with a broad and enlightened
perspective.
C104 - Elementary Social Studies Methods - Elementary Social Studies Methods helps students learn how to implement effective social studies
instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include social studies themes, promoting cultural diversity, integrated social studies across the
curriculum, social studies learning environments, assessing social studies understanding, differentiated instruction for social studies, technology for
social studies instruction, and standards-based social studies instruction.
C105 - Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods - Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods helps students learn how to implement
effective visual and performing arts instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include integrating arts across the curriculum, music education,
visual arts, dance and movement, dramatic arts, differentiated instruction for visual and performing arts, and promoting cultural diversity through visual
and performing arts instruction.
C107 - Anatomy and Physiology I - Anatomy and Physiology I examines the structures and functions of the human body. The course is designed to
provide students with a thorough understanding of human anatomy and physiology, including the interdependent operational relationships among
them. Students will use a dissection lab to study organ systems of the human body in their healthy state including the digestive, skeletal, sensory,
respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine and renal systems. By examining these organ
systems in a healthy state, healthcare professionals are more adept to recognize when a something is functioning abnormally, which is a key
component to providing effective care to patients. For nursing students this is the first of two anatomy and physiology courses within the program of
study. This course has no pre-requisites.
C108 - Elementary Science Methods - Elementary Science Methods helps students learn how to implement effective science instruction in the
elementary classroom. Topics include processes of science, science inquiry, science learning environments, instructional strategies for science,
differentiated instruction for science, assessing science understanding, technology for science instruction, standards based science instruction,
integrating science across curriculum, and science beyond the classroom.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 147
C109 - Elementary Mathematics Methods - Elementary Mathematics Methods helps students learn how to implement effective math instruction in
the elementary classroom. Topics include differentiated math instruction, mathematical communication, mathematical tools for instruction, assessing
math understanding, integrating math across the curriculum, critical thinking development, standards based math instruction, and mathematical
models and representation.
C113 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics - Students will continue to build instructional planning skills with a focus on
selecting appropriate materials for diverse learners, selecting age and ability appropriate strategies for the content areas, promoting critical thinking,
and establishing both short and long term goals.
C121 - Survey of United States History - This course presents a broad and thematic survey of U.S. history from European colonization to the mid-
twentieth century. Students will explore how historical events and major themes in American history have affected a diverse population.
C128 - Advanced Professional Roles and Values - The Advanced Professional Roles and Values course bridges the undergraduate nurse to higher
level knowledge and accountability by examining the roles of advanced professional practice. Current issues, professional and personal values, and
ethical issues are examined along with scholarship and advanced practice roles. Course Prerequisites: Completion of all undergraduate courses.
C133 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary and Special Education - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students
as they continue to build instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment,
engagement, integration of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform
instruction.
C141 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they
continue to build instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement,
integration of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C142 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they continue to build
instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement, integration of
learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C143 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they continue to build
instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement, integration of
learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C155 - Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing Practice - In Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing
Practice, students will gain application skills by examining syndromes rather than looking at body systems independently. The course includes
pathophysiologies, the associated pharmacological treatments, and social and environmental impacts Pathopharmacological Foundations for
Advanced Nursing Practice is an integrated examination of five common and important disease processes: asthma, heart failure, obesity, traumatic
brain injury, and depression.
These processes are relevant to advanced nursing practice because of their prevalence and impact on the healthcare system and the health of the
nation.
C157 - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience - The Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience course gives
you an opportunity to apply leadership knowledge to evaluate a healthcare facility and then recommend an organizational change to improve
population health. In this course you will integrate and apply your learning in a clinical experience working with a nurse leader. You will demonstrate
and document the following skills:
• lead change to improve quality health in populations
• advance a culture of excellence through lifelong learning
• build and lead collaborative interprofessional care teams
• navigate and integrate care services across the healthcare system
• design innovative nursing practices
• translate evidence into practice
C158 - Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team Development - This graduate-level course builds on baccalaureate-level leadership
knowledge to develop application skills in complex healthcare environments with diverse teams. Graduates will develop knowledge and competencies
in the following areas: leadership theory, systems and complexity theory, advanced communication, and building consensus.
Knowledge, skills, and abilities related to creating cultures of safety and leading quality improvement are key parts of this course and of contemporary
leadership. Most importantly, students will develop and establish deep understanding of leadership roles within organizations, a central theme in the
course. Upon successful completion of this course, Students will demonstrate:
• critical decision making, critical analysis, and visionary thinking to lead and affect positive healthcare environments;
• the ability to build consensus and communicate a compelling vision that facilitates teamwork.
C159 - Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends - Social, political, and economic factors influence policies that impact health outcomes in acute
care settings in communities, nationally and globally. Nurse leaders need to understand the determinants of health as well as how legal and regulatory
processes, healthcare finances, research, the role of professional organizations, and special interest groups/lobbyists impact health outcomes.This
course provides a framework for understanding the organization of healthcare delivery and financing systems in the U.S. and other nations. It
addresses how policies are made and factors that influence policies at local, national, and global levels that impact health/wellness and the nursing
profession. The roles of values, ethical theories, stakeholder interests, research, and recent legislation related to health policy and health outcomes
will be explored. The nurse leader will gain expertise in effecting change through active participation in influencing or developing policies that impact
health.
C161 - Principles of Organizational Performance Management - This is the first specialization course in the nursing leadership and management
track. Building on core coursework in the master’s program, future nurse leaders examine the roles, responsibilities, and expectations of managers in
maximizing productivity and performance in healthcare organizations. They will explore leadership issues, including how to build and motivate a team,
organize staff development (including legal and ethical issues), and budget resources and time. This course encourages future nurse leaders to
examine administration from a systems perspective, relying on evidence to inform their practice.
C162 - Principles of Healthcare Business and Financial Management - Business and financial healthcare practices have a significant impact on
organizational outcomes. In this course, future nurse leaders examine scarce resources, financial principles, and tools for financial and business
management. They will also use financial budgeting and management practices and analyze the impact of regulations on the current healthcare
environment.
C163 - Strategic Leadership and Future Delivery Models - This graduate-level course emphasizes strategic leadership in healthcare, focusing on
the trends and directions in the industry and the future of healthcare delivery. Future nurse leaders will have the opportunity to explore how the
strategic planning processes incorporates healthcare trends and the evolution of healthcare systems, methods and concepts in strategic leadership,
and the ever-changing technology in healthcare.
C165 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and Earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical and everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 148
C168 - Critical Thinking and Logic - Reasoning and Problem Solving helps students internalize a systematic process for exploring issues that takes
them beyond an unexamined point of view and encourages them to become more self-aware thinkers by applying principles of problem identification
and clarification, planning and information gathering, identifying assumptions and values, analysis and interpretation of information and data, reaching
well-founded conclusions, and identifying the role of critical thinking in the disciplines and professions.
C170 - Data Management - Applications - This course covers conceptual data modeling and provides an introduction to MySQL. Students will learn
how to create simple to complex SELECT queries including subqueries and joins, and will also learn how to use SQL to update and delete data.
Topics covered in this course include exposure to MySQL; developing physical schemas; creating and modifying databases, tables, views, foreign
keys/primary keys (FKs/PKs), and indexes; populating tables; and developing simple Select-From-Where (SFW) queries to complex 3+ table join
queries.
C172 - Network and Security - Foundations - Network and Security - Foundations introduces students to the components of a computer network
and the concept and role of communication protocols. The course covers widely used categorical classifications of networks (e.g., LAN, MAN, WAN,
WLAN, PAN, SAN, CAN, and VPN) as well as network topologies, physical devices, and layered abstraction. The course also introduces students to
basic concepts of security covering vulnerabilities of networks and mitigation techniques, security of physical media, and security policies and
procedures.This course has no prerequisites.
C173 - Scripting and Programming - Foundations - Scripting and Programming - Foundations provides an introduction to programming, covering
basic elements such as variables, data types, flow control, and design concepts. The course is language-agnostic in nature, ending in a survey of
languages and introduces the distinction between interpreted and compiled languages. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C175 - Data Management - Foundations - This course introduces students to the concepts and terminology used in the field of data management.
They will be introduced to Structured Query Language (SQL) and will learn how to use Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation
Language (DML) commands to define, retrieve, and manipulate data. This course covers differentiations of data—structured vs. unstructured and
quasi-structured (relational, hierarchical, XML, textual, visual, etc); it also covers aspects of data management (quality, policy, storage methodologies).
Foundational concepts of data security are included.
C176 - Business of IT - Project Management - In this course, students will build on industry standard concepts, techniques, and processes to
develop a comprehensive foundation for project management activities. During a project's life cycle, students will develop the critical skills necessary
to initiate, plan, execute, monitor, control, and close a project. Students will apply best practices in areas such as scope management, resource
allocation, project planning, project scheduling, quality control, risk management, performance measurement, and project reporting. This course
prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Project+.
C178 - Network and Security - Applications - Network and Security - Applications prepares students for the CompTIA Security+ certification exam.
Successfully completing the course ensures the student will demonstrate the knowledge and skills required to install and configure systems to secure
applications, networks, and devices; perform threat analysis and respond with appropriate mitigation techniques; participate in risk mitigation activities;
and operate with an awareness of applicable policies, laws, and regulations. The following course is a prerequisite: C480 Networks
C179 - Business of IT - Applications - This course introduces IT students to information systems (IS). The course includes important topics related
to management of information systems (MIS), such as system development, and business continuity. The course also provides an overview of
management tools and issue tracking systems.
C180 - Introduction to Psychology - In this course, students will develop an understanding of psychology and how it helps them better understand
others and themselves. Students will learn general theories about psychological development, the structure of the brain, and how psychologists study
behavior. They will gain an understanding of both normal and disordered psychological behaviors, as well as general applications of the science of
psychology in society (such as personality typing and counseling).
C181 - Survey of United States Constitution and Government - This course is an introduction to the U.S. Constitution and the U.S. government.
Topics include (1) structure and relevance of the U.S. Constitution, (2) structure and function of governmental branches, and (3) political participation
and policy making.
C182 - Introduction to IT - Introduction to IT examines information technology as a discipline and the various roles and functions of the IT department
as business support. Students are presented with various IT disciplines including systems and services, network and security, scripting and
programming, data management, and business of IT, with a survey of technologies in every area and how they relate to each other and to the
business.
C185 - Network Policies and Services Management - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: MCSA: Installing and
Configuring Windows Server.
C186 - Server Administration - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: MCSA: Administering Windows Server.
C187 - Network Reliability and Fault Tolerance - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: MCSA: Configuring Advanced
Windows Server.
C188 - Software Engineering -
This course introduces the concepts of software engineering to students who have completed the core courses in programming and project
management. The principles build on previously acquired concepts, switching the emphasis from programming simple routines, to engineering robust
and scalable software solutions. This course does not cover programming, but provides an overview of software engineering processes, and their
challenging nature focusing on the need for a disciplined approach to software engineering. A generic process framework provides the groundwork for
formal process models. Prescriptive process models such as the Waterfall Model and Agile Development are included. An introduction to the elements
and phases of software engineering is included which explores requirements engineering, design concepts, and software quality.
C190 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological
research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment.
Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment
to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C191 - Operating Systems for Programmers - This course covers operating systems from the perspective of a programmer including the placement
of the operating system in the layered application development model. Primarily OSs provide Memory Management, Task Scheduling, and CPU
allocation. Secondarily, OSs provide tools for file storage/access, permission control, event handling, network access, and cross-process interaction.
OSs also provide tools for debugging problems within a single process or within groups of programs.
C195 - Software II - Advanced Java Concepts - Software II – Advanced Java Concepts refines object-oriented programming expertise and builds
database and file server application development skills. You will learn about and put into action lambda expressions, collections, input/output,
advanced error handling, and the newest features of Java 8 to develop software that meets business requirements. This course requires intermediate
expertise in object-oriented programming and the Java language.
C196 - Mobile Application Development - This course introduces students to programming for mobile devices using a Software Development Kit
(SDK). Students with previous knowledge of programming will learn how to install and utilize a SDK, build a basic mobile application, build a mobile
applications using a graphical user interface(GUI), adapt applications to different mobile devices, save data, execute and debug mobile applications
using emulators, and deploy a mobile application.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 149
C200 - Managing Organizations and Leading People - This course covers principles of effective management and leadership that maximize
organizational performance. The following topics are included: the role and functions of a manager, analysis of personal leadership styles, approaches
to self-awareness and self-assessment, and application of foundational leadership and management skills.
C201 - Business Acumen - The Business Acumen course introduces you to the operation of the business enterprise and the role of management in
directing the activities of the business. You will examine the roles of management in the context of business functions such as marketing, operations,
accounting, and finance.
C202 - Managing Human Capital - This course focuses on strategies and tools that managers use to maximize employee contribution and create
organizational excellence. You will learn talent management strategies to motivate and develop employees as well as best practices to manage
performance for added value.
C203 - Becoming an Effective Leader - This course explores major theories and approaches to leadership, leadership style evaluation, and personal
leadership development while focusing on motivation, development, and achievement of others. You will learn how to influence followers, manage
organizational culture, and enhance your effectiveness as a leader.
C204 - Management Communication - This course prepares you for the communication challenges in organizations. Topics examined include:
theories and strategies of communication, persuasion, conflict management and ethics that enhance communication to various audiences.
C205 - Leading Teams - This course helps you establish team objectives, align the team purpose with organizational goals, build credibility and trust,
and develop the talents of individuals to enhance team performance.
C206 - Ethical Leadership - This course examines the ethical issues and dilemmas managers face. This course provides a framework for analysis of
management-related ethical issues and decision-making action required for satisfactory resolution of these issues.
C207 - Data-Driven Decision Making - This course presents critical problem-solving methodologies, including field research and data collection
methods that enhance organizational performance. Topics include quantitative analysis, statistical and quality tools. You will improve your ability to
use data to make informed decisions.
C208 - Change Management and Innovation - This course provides an overview of change theories and innovation practices. This course will
emphasize the role of leadership in influencing and managing change in response to challenges and opportunities facing organizations.
C209 - Strategic Management - This course focuses on models and practices of strategic management including developing and implementing both
short and long term strategy and evaluating performance to achieve strategic goals and objectives.
C210 - Management and Leadership Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MSML curriculum and requires you to synthesize
core knowledge from across the degree program and apply research skills in order to improve an organization. You will be asked to work with a real-
world organization to address a management or leadership challenge.
C211 - Global Economics for Managers - This course examines how economic tools, techniques, and indicators can be used for solving
organizational problems related to competitiveness, productivity, and growth. You will explore the management implications of a variety of economic
concepts and effective strategies to make decisions within a global context.
C212 - Marketing - This course will focus on the marketing function and its impact on the overall success of an organization. Topics include consumer
behavior, marketing theories and strategies, product positioning, the competitive environment, and effectiveness of the marketing function. A key
element of the course will include the relationship of the “marketing mix” to strategic planning.
C213 - Accounting for Decision Makers - This course provides you with the accounting knowledge and skills to assess and manage a business.
Topics include the accounting cycle, financial statements, taxes, and budgeting. You will improve your ability to understand reports and use
accounting information to plan and make sound business decisions.
C214 - Financial Management - This course covers practical approaches to analysis and decision making in the administration of corporate funds,
including capital budgeting, working capital management, and cost of capital. Topics include financial planning, management of working capital,
analysis of investment opportunities, sources of long-term financing, government regulations, and global influences. You will improve your ability to
interpret financial statements and manage corporate finances.
C215 - Operations Management - This course focuses on the strategic importance of operations management to overall performance. This course
also emphasizes principles of supply chain management relevant to a variety of business operations ranging from manufacturing goods to retail
services. You will examine the various planning, control, and decision-making tools and techniques of the operations function.
C216 - MBA Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MBA curriculum and covers all previous assessment topics. You will work
with a real-world organization to develop a solution to a business problem. In addition, you will work in teams of three or four students to simulate
running a business. One unique aspect of the simulation is that there are scheduled dates each week for simulation decisions. Since all teams are
required to meet the deadlines and work at the same pace this aspect of the assessment cannot be accelerated.
C217 - Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan - This course introduces students to human development across the lifespan. This
will include an introductory survey of cognitive, psychological, and physical growth. Students will gain an understanding in regards to the emergence of
personality, identity, gender and sexuality, social relationships, emotion, language, and moral development through life. This will include milestones
such as education, achievement, work, dying, and death.
C218 - MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MBA, IT Management curriculum
and focuses on strategic management while allowing for the synthesis of previous assessment topics. You will work in teams of three or four students
to simulate running a business. One unique aspect of the simulation is that there are scheduled dates each week for simulation decisions. Since all
teams are required to meet the deadlines and work at the same pace this aspect of the assessment cannot be accelerated.
C219 - MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MBA, Healthcare Management curriculum and
focuses on strategic management while allowing for the synthesis of previous assessment topics. You will work in teams of three or four students to
simulate running a business. One unique aspect of the simulation is that there are scheduled dates each week for simulation decisions. Since all
teams are required to meet the deadlines and work at the same pace this aspect of the assessment cannot be accelerated.
C224 - Research Foundations - The Research Foundations course focuses on the essential concepts of four major research approaches, including
quantitative, qualitative, mixed, and action research. No original data collection or analysis will be required in this course.
C225 - Research Questions and Literature Review - The Research Questions and Literature Reviews course focuses on how to conduct a thorough
literature review that addresses and identifies important educational research topics, problems, and questions, and helps determine the appropriate
kind of research and data needed to answer one's research questions and hypotheses.
C226 - Research Design and Analysis - The Research Design and Analysis course focuses on applying strategies for effective design of empirical
research studies. Particular emphasis is placed on selecting or constructing the design that will provide the most valid results, analyzing the kind of
data that would be obtained, and making defensible interpretations and drawing appropriate conclusions based on the data.
C227 - Research Proposals - Research Proposals focuses on planning and writing a well-organized and complete research proposal. The
relationship of the sections in a research proposal to the sections in a research report will be highlighted.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 150
C228 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing will assist students in becoming
familiar with foundational theories and models of health promotion applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will develop an
understanding of how policies and resources influence the health of populations. Focus is concentrated on learning the importance of a community
assessment to improve or resolve a community health issue. Students will be introduced to the relationships between cultures and communities and
the steps necessary to create community collaboration with the goal to improve or resolve community health issues in a variety of settings. Students
will gain a greater understanding of health systems in the United States, global health issues, quality-of-life issues, cultural influences, community
collaboration, and emergency preparedness.
C229 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field Experience - This course will assist students to become familiar with clinical
aspects of health promotion and disease prevention, applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will practice skills based on
clinical priorities, methodology, and resources that positively influence the health of populations. Students will demonstrate critical thinking skills by
applying principles of community health nursing in a variety of settings. Students will design, implement and evaluate a project in community health.
Students will develop health promotion and disease prevention strategies for population groups.
C230 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Clinical - This course will assist students to become familiar with clinical aspects of
health promotion and disease prevention, applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will practice skills based on clinical
priorities, methodology, and resources that positively influence the health of populations. Students will demonstrate critical thinking skills by applying
principles of community health nursing in a variety of settings. Students will design, implement and evaluate a project in community health. Students
will develop health promotion and disease prevention strategies for population groups.
C232 - Introduction to Human Resource Management - The course provides an introduction to the management of human resources, the function
within an organization that focuses on recruitment, management, and direction for the people who work in the organization. Students will be introduced
to HR topics such as strategic workforce planning and employment; compensation and benefits; training and development; employee and labor
relations; occupational health, safety and security.
C233 - Employment Law - This course reviews the legal and regulatory framework surrounding employment, including recruitment, termination, and
discrimination law. The course topics include employment-at-will, EEO, ADA, OSHA, and other laws affecting the workplace. Students will learn to
analyze current trends and issues in employment law and apply this knowledge to effectively manage risk in the employment relationship.
C234 - Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection - This course focuses on building a highly skilled workforce by using effective strategies
and tactics for recruiting, selecting, hiring, and retaining employees.
C235 - Training and Development - Training and Development focuses on the development of human capital (i.e., growing talent) by applying
effective learning theories and practices for training and developing employees. The course will help develop essential skills for improving and
empowering organizations through high-caliber training and development processes. There are no prerequisites.
C236 - Compensation and Benefits - Compensation and Benefits develops competence in the design and implementation of compensation and
benefits systems in an organization. The total rewards perspective integrates tangible rewards (e.g., salary, bonuses) with employee benefits (e.g.,
health insurance, retirement plan) and intangible rewards (e.g., location, work environment). This perspective allows students to use all forms of
rewards fairly and effectively to enable job satisfaction and organizational performance. There are no prerequisites.
C237 - Taxation I - This course focuses on the taxation of individuals. It provides an overview of income taxes of both individuals and business
entities in order to enhance awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure and analyze the effect of various tax options. The
course will introduce taxation of sole proprietorships. Students will learn principles of individual taxation and how to develop effective personal tax
strategies for individuals. Students will also be introduced to tax research of complex taxation issues.
C238 - Taxation II - Taxation II focuses on the taxation of business entities, including corporations, partnerships, and limited liability corporations
(LLCs). Important taxation concepts and skills discussed in this course include tax reporting, planning, and research skills applicable to a variety of
business contexts. The activities you will complete for this course emphasize the role of taxes in business decisions and business strategy. The
following courses are prerequisites: C237 Taxation I and C268 Spreadsheets.
C239 - Advanced Tax Concepts - This course is designed to enhance your awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure
and analyze the effect of various tax options. This course provides an overview of income taxes on individuals, corporations, associations,
reorganizations, and corporate distributions, while emphasizing the role of taxes in business decisions and business strategy. Also examined will be
federal tax laws applicable to individuals and corporations (and shareholders), including tax research, tax compliance, and tax planning.
C240 - Auditing - This course will walk you through the auditing process, including planning, conducting, documenting, and reporting an audit. You
will also learn the roles and professional standards of public accountants. This course is designed to help you study for the CPA exam and develop
essential skills for real-world experience.
C241 - Business Law for Accountants - Welcome to Business Law for Accountants! While you may have had exposure to other law or even
business law courses, this course focuses on those areas of the law that traditionally impact accounting-related and business transaction-related
decision functions. The course represents the legal and accounting concepts governing the conduct of business in the United States. It will cover laws
and regulations relevant to business operations.
C242 - Accounting Information Systems - Welcome to Accounting Information Systems! This course introduces a variety of accounting information
systems and internal controls necessary for effective systems. Students will learn how to document and evaluate the process flows of accounting
information systems and evaluate internal controls within accounting systems.
C243 - Advanced Financial Accounting - This course builds upon your accounting knowledge by focusing on advanced financial accounting topics
such as consolidations, partnership accounting, and international accounting.
C244 - Advanced Auditing - This course introduces the basic concepts, standards, procedures, and practices of auditing, the changing role of the
independent auditor, professional conduct and ethics, auditor's reporting responsibilities, risk assessment, internal control, evidential matter, and
management fraud. This course is designed to help you examine how the role of internal and external auditing can best be performed through
studying cases of audit activities.
C245 - Accounting Research - The Accounting Research course is an upper level course that builds research application skills through identification
of accounting issues and researching concepts related to public accounting firms, businesses, and regulating authorities. This course helps students
develop analytical and research capabilities and apply the technical knowledge of accounting theory and principles to solve complex accounting
problems.
C246 - Fundamentals of Interconnecting Network Devices - This course prepares students for the Cisco CCENT certification exam,
Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices Part I (ICND1). This is also the first of two exams that lead to Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA)
certification.
C247 - Interconnecting Network Devices - This course prepares students for the second Cisco CCNA certification exam, Interconnecting Cisco
Networking Devices Part 2 (ICND2).
C248 - Intermediate Accounting I - This is the first of two courses encompassing more advanced accounting concepts. It will offer a more
comprehensive treatment of concepts learned in previous accounting courses. It will cover accounting standards, the conceptual accounting
framework, preparation of selected financial statements, time value of money, receivables, fixed assets, intangible assets, and both long- and short-
term liabilities.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 151
C249 - Intermediate Accounting II - This is the second of two intermediate accounting courses. This course provides a more comprehensive
treatment of concepts learned in Fundamentals of Accounting. This course will cover stockholders’ equity, dilutive securities, investments, revenue
recognition, accounting for income taxes, pensions and post-retirement benefits, leases, financial disclosures, and the preparation of the statement of
cash flows.
C250 - Cost and Managerial Accounting - The Cost and Managerial Accounting course will cover managerial accounting as part of the information
managers’ use for planning and controlling operations. It prepares students to consider cost behavior and employ various cost methods. Job-order
costing, process costing, and activity-based costing methods will be covered, along with cost-benefit analysis, standard costing, variance analysis, and
cost reporting.
C251 - Accounting Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the accounting curriculum and requires students to synthesize core
knowledge from across the degree program and apply accounting skills to benefit an organization. Students will be asked to work with case studies to
address an accounting challenge.
C252 - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting - This course is designed to be an introduction to the theory and practice of accounting in
governmental and nonprofit entities. The course includes a thorough examination of the process of analyzing and recording transactions by
governmental and nonprofit organization and their preparation of financial statements in accordance with Financial Accounting Board (FASB) and
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standards. This course includes accounting for governmental and nonprofit entities (local, state,
and federal) and voluntary organizations.
C253 - Advanced Managerial Accounting - This course introduces the complexity and functionality of managerial accounting systems within an
organization. It covers the topics of product costing (including Activity Based Costing), decision making (including capital budgeting), profitability
analysis, budgeting, performance evaluation, and reporting related to managerial decision-making. This course provides the opportunity for a detailed
study of how managerial accounting information supports the operational and strategic needs of an organization and how managers use accounting
information for decision-making, planning and controlling activities within organizations.
C254 - Fraud and Forensic Accounting - This course provides a framework for detecting and preventing financial statement fraud. Topics include
the profession’s focus and legislation of fraud, revenue- and inventory-related fraud, and liability, asset, and inadequate disclosure fraud.
C255 - Introduction to Geography - This course will discuss geographic concepts, places and regions, physical and human systems and the
environment.
C263 - The Ocean Systems - In this course, learners investigate the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere,
biosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include: origins of Earth’s oceans and the early history of life; physical characteristics
and geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water, and how ocean surface currents and
deep circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the effects of
human activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C264 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change. Students will learn how the climate system works; what factors cause
climate to change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models,
observations and theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course
explores evidence for changes in ocean temperature, sea level and acidity due to global warming. Students will learn how climate change today is
different from past climate cycles and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course
looks at the connection between human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic and
environmental consequences of climate change.
C266 - The Ocean Systems - In this course, learners investigate the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere,
biosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include: origins of Earth’s oceans and the early history of life; physical characteristics
and geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water, and how ocean surface currents and
deep circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the effects of
human activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C267 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change. Students will learn how the climate system works; what factors cause
climate to change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models,
observations and theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course
explores evidence for changes in ocean temperature, sea level and acidity due to global warming. Students will learn how climate change today is
different from past climate cycles and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course
looks at the connection between human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic and
environmental consequences of climate change.
C268 - Spreadsheets - The Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to analyze business problems. Students
will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business/accounting applications (e.g., using essential spreadsheet
functions, formulas, charts, etc.)
C272 - Foundational Perspectives of Education - This course provides an introduction to the historical, legal, and philosophical foundations of
education. Current educational trends, reform movements, major federal and state laws, legal and ethical responsibilities, and an overview of
standards-based curriculum are the focus of the course. The course of study presents a discussion of changes and challenges in contemporary
education. It covers the diversity found in American schools, introduces emerging educational technology trends, and provides an overview of
contemporary topics in education.
C273 - Introduction to Sociology - This course teaches students to think like sociologists, in other words, to see and understand the hidden rules, or
norms, by which people live, and how they free or restrain behavior. Students will learn about socializing institutions, such as schools and families, as
well as workplace organizations and governments. Participants will also learn how people deviate from the rules by challenging norms, and how such
behavior may result in social change, either on a large scale or within small groups.
C277 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of
operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets
of real numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, trees and networks, and permutation and combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C278 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include: real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C280 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data, including representations, constructions and interpretation of graphical displays (e.g., box
plots, histograms, cumulative frequency plots, scatter plots). Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. Candidates should have completed a
course in College Algebra before engaging in this course.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 152
C282 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use
differential calculus of one variable and appropriate technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains
and ranges; limits, continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and
sum rules applied to polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Candidates should have completed a course in
Pre-Calculus before engaging in this course.
C283 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in relation to the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills
necessary to apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include
antiderivatives; indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; definite integrals; acceleration,
velocity, position, and initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration;
improper integration; area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations;
direction fields; growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C284 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help you develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
become a prospective and practicing educator. You will be able to use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the learning of
mathematics. This course focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and instructional planning, with methods based on
research and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an
effective secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C285 - Mathematics History and Technology - In this course, you will learn about a variety of technological tools for doing mathematics, and
develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. You will come to understand that mathematics is a very human subject
that comes from the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change, as well as the micro-level actions of individuals with personal, professional,
and philosophical motivations. You will focus on the historical development of mathematics including contributions of significant figures and diverse
cultures. Most importantly, you will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and historical information to create an enriching student-centered
mathematical learning environment.
C299 - Designing Customized Security - The course provides an introduction to the core security concepts and skills needed for the installation,
monitoring, and troubleshooting of network security features to maintain the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of data and devices. Successfully
completing this course will certify these skills. You will also develop competency in the technologies that Cisco uses in its security infrastructure.
Recommended Experience: You should possess a current Cisco Certified Network Administrator in Routing and Switching certification.
C301 - Translational Research for Practice and Populations - This graduate-level course builds on your baccalaureate-level statistical knowledge
to help you develop skills in analyzing, interpreting, and translating research into nursing practice using principles of patient-centered care and
applications to individuals and populations
C304 - Professional Roles and Values - This course explores the unique role nurses play in healthcare, beginning with the history and evolution of
the nursing profession. The responsibilities and accountability of professional nurses are covered, including cultural competency, advocacy for patient
rights, and the legal and ethical issues related to supervision and delegation. Professional conduct, leadership, the public image of nursing, the work
environment, and issues of social justice are also addressed.
C306 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of
operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets
of real numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, trees and networks, and permutation and combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C307 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C308 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C309 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C310 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C311 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C312 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C313 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C314 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C315 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C316 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C317 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C318 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 153
C319 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C320 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C321 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C322 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C323 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C324 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C325 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C326 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C327 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C328 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C329 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C330 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C331 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C332 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C333 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C334 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C339 - Cohort Seminar - Cohort Seminar provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during their demonstration teaching period by
providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates their demonstration of competence in
becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom, exploring community resources, building
collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C340 - Cohort Seminar in Special Education - Cohort Seminar in Special Education provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during
their demonstration teaching period by providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates
their demonstration of competence in becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom,
exploring community resources, building collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C341 - Cohort Seminar - Cohort Seminar provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during their demonstration teaching period by
providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates their demonstration of competence in
becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom, exploring community resources, building
collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C347 - Professional Portfolio - You will create an online teaching portfolio that includes professional artifacts (e.g., resume and Philosophy of
Teaching Statement) that demonstrate the skills you have acquired throughout your Demonstration Teaching experience.
C348 - Professional Portfolio - You will create an online teaching portfolio that includes professional artifacts (e.g., resume and Philosophy of
Teaching Statement) that demonstrate the skills you have acquired throughout your Demonstration Teaching experience.
C349 - Health Assessment - The Health Assessment course is designed to enhance students’ knowledge and skills in health promotion, the early
detection of illness and prevention of disease. To that end the course provides relevant content and skills necessary to perform a comprehensive
physical assessment of patients throughout the lifespan. Students are engaged in these processes through interviewing, history taking and
demonstration of an advanced-level physical examination. Dominant models, theories and perspectives related to evidence-based wellness practices
and health education strategies also are included in this challenging course. Competency is measured through successful completion of two
performance tasks. It is recommended that students plan to complete C349 in four to six weeks.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 154
C350 - Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and Populations - In this course, students will learn about the principles of health
assessment from the individual to the global level. Students will learn to perform a comprehensive functional health assessment that includes social
structures, family history, and environmental situations, from the individual patient to the population. This course builds on prior knowledge gained in
previous courses and in nursing practice, in areas such as pathophysiology, pharmacology, and epidemiology, and focus on applying this knowledge
in various populations with common disorders.
This course is roughly divided into three parts:
• Advanced health assessment focusing on abnormal findings for common disease.
• Integrating health assessment findings into a population, considering such issue as culture, spirituality, and continuum.
• Functionality of clients based upon the problems and populations.
C351 - Professional Presence and Influence - Who we are and how we behave affects others. Our professional presence in therapeutic settings
can support or inhibit well-being not only in patients, but also in the rest of the health care team, in the family and support system of the patients, and
in the health care organization as a whole. This course will help registered nurses manage this impact by recognizing situations and practices that
support a positive environment and cultivating actions and responses to achieve and maintain this environment. The growth of self-knowledge will
expand nurses’ ability to direct influence in ways that are intended rather than in random or destructive ways.
C352 - Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics - This course provides the opportunity to acquire advanced knowledge and skills in the therapeutic
use of pharmacologic agents, herbals, and supplements. Students will explore the pharmacologic treatment of major health problems and examine the
principles of pharmacogenomics. The effects of culture, ethnicity, age, pregnancy, gender, healthcare setting, and funding of pharmacologic therapy
will be emphasized. Legal aspects of prescribing will be fully addressed. Case studies will be utilized to present some of these concepts.
C360 - Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned
during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of
your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C361 - Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research - The Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research course will help
you to learn how to design and conduct research to answer important questions about improving nursing practice and patient care delivery outcomes.
After you are introduced to the basics of evidence-based practice, you will continue to implement the principles throughout your clinical experience.
This will allow you to graduate with more competence and confidence to become a leader in the healing environment.
C362 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply
differential calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative, the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration, optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's Rule. Pre-Calculus is a pre-requisite for this course.
C363 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply
differential calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative, the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration, optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's Rule. Pre-Calculus is a pre-requisite for this course.
C365 - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention helps students learn how to implement effective
language arts instruction and intervention in the elementary classroom. Topics include written and spoken English, expanding students' knowledge,
literature rich environments, differentiated instruction, technology for reading and writing, assessment strategies for reading and writing, and strategies
for developing academic language.
C367 - Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods - Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods helps students learn how to
implement effective physical and health education instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include healthy lifestyles, student safety, student
nutrition, physical education, differentiated instruction for physical and health education, physical education across the curriculum, and public policy in
health and physical education.
C368 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they
continue to build instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement,
integration of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C369 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science - Students will continue to build instructional planning skills with a focus on selecting
appropriate materials for diverse learners, selecting age- and ability- appropriate strategies for the content areas, promoting critical thinking, and
establishing both short- and long- term goals
C371 - Concepts in Science - Concepts in Science for undergraduates provides students seeking a bachelor’s degree and initial teacher licensure in
science education with an introduction to essential science themes present within and across all science disciplines, including chemistry, physics,
biology, and the geosciences. These themes include comprehending the magnitude of the physical and natural world, analyzing and converting
measurements, understanding the basic nature and behavior of matter and energy, examining atomic structure, identifying and naming basic types of
chemical bonds, and analyzing and interpreting scientific data. Concepts in Science provides a solid foundation for future, in-depth, scientific studies
and should be taken prior to any other science content course. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C373 - General Chemistry I with Lab - General Chemistry I with Lab for undergraduates provides students seeking initial teacher licensure in
secondary chemistry with an introduction to the field of chemistry, the branch of science that studies the composition, structure, properties, and
behavior of matter. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name
chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of
matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in
Science is a prerequisite for this course.
C374 - General Chemistry II with Lab - C374: General Chemistry II with Lab for undergraduates continues the study of general chemistry for
students seeking initial teacher licensure in secondary chemistry. Building on the topics covered in General Chemistry I, General Chemistry II
examines the behavior of gases and solutions, reaction rates and equilibrium, acids and bases, and oxidation-reduction reactions. Also, this course
provides an introduction to three sub-disciplines of chemistry: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and nuclear chemistry. Laboratory experiences
reinforce the essential skills required for conducting successful scientific investigations. C373: General Chemistry I for undergraduates is a
prerequisite for this course.
C375 - Survey of World History - Through a thematic approach, this course explores the history of human societies over 5,000 years. Students
examine political and social structures, religious beliefs, economic systems, and patterns in trade, as well as many cultural attributes that came to
distinguish different societies around the globe over time. Special attention is given to relationships between these societies and the way geographic
and environmental factors influence human development.
Note: There are references within this video to Taskstream. If Taskstream is not part of your student experience, please disregard, and locate your
task(s) within your course.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 155
C380 - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention helps students learn how to implement effective
language arts instruction and intervention in the elementary classroom. Topics include written and spoken English, expanding students' knowledge,
literature rich environments, differentiated instruction, technology for reading and writing, assessment strategies for reading and writing, and strategies
for developing academic language.
C381 - Elementary Mathematics Methods - Elementary Mathematics Methods helps students learn how to implement effective math instruction in
the elementary classroom. Topics include differentiated math instruction, mathematical communication, mathematical tools for instruction, assessing
math understanding, integrating math across the curriculum, critical thinking development, standards based math instruction, and mathematical
models and representation.
C382 - Elementary Science Methods - Elementary Science Methods helps students learn how to implement effective science instruction in the
elementary classroom. Topics include processes of science, science inquiry, science learning environments, instructional strategies for science,
differentiated instruction for science, assessing science understanding, technology for science instruction, standards based science instruction,
integrating science across curriculum, and science beyond the classroom.
C388 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. A humanistic and social endeavor, science serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for observing,
questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain the nature
and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations, make
decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C389 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. A humanistic and social endeavor, science serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for observing,
questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain the nature
and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations, make
decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C393 - IT Foundations - IT Foundations is the first course in a two-part series preparatory for the CompTIA A+ exam, Part I. Students will gain an
understanding of personal computer components and their functions in a desktop system, as well as computer data storage and retrieval; classifying,
installing, configuring, optimizing, upgrading, and troubleshooting printers, laptops, portable devices, operating systems, networks, and system
security; recommending appropriate tools, diagnostic procedures, preventative maintenance and troubleshooting techniques for personal computer
components in a desktop system; strategies for identifying, preventing, and reporting safety hazards and environmental/human accidents in a
technological environments; and effective communication with colleagues and clients as well as job-related professional behavior.
C394 - IT Applications - IT Applications is a continuation of the IT Foundations course preparatory for the CompTIA A+ exam, Part II.
Students will gain an understanding of personal computer components and their functions in a desktop system. Also covered is computer data storage
and retrieval, including classifying, installing, configuring, optimizing, upgrading, and troubleshooting printers, laptops, portable devices, operating
systems, networks, and system security. Other areas include recommending appropriate tools, diagnostic procedures, preventative maintenance and
troubleshooting techniques for personal computer components in a desktop system. The course then finished with strategies for identifying,
preventing, and reporting safety hazards and environmental/human accidents in a technological environments, and effective communication with
colleagues and clients as well as job-related professional behavior.
C395 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in English - Applications in Instructional Planning and Presentation in English, as a continuation of
the Instructional Planning and Presentation course, helps students apply, analyze, and reflect on effective classroom instruction.
C396 - English Pedagogy - English Pedagogy examines pedagogical applications for the teaching of reading, literature, composition, and related
English Language Arts (ELA) content and skills for middle and secondary schools. Focused on fostering and developing pedagogical content
knowledge in the aforementioned areas, students will analyze assessment strategies and incorporate methods of literacy instruction into their
instructional planning to meet the needs of diverse learners. This course helps students prepare and develop skills for classroom practice, lesson
planning, and working in school settings. C397 Preclinical Experiences in English is a prerequisite.
C398 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C399 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C400 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C401 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C405 - Anatomy and Physiology II - This course introduces advanced concepts of human anatomy and physiology, through the investigation of the
structures and functions of the body's organ systems. Students will have the opportunity to explore the body through laboratory experience and apply
the concepts covered in this course. For nursing students this is the second of two anatomy and physiology courses within the program of study.
C425 - Healthcare Delivery Systems, Regulation, and Compliance - This course provides an overview of the U.S. healthcare system and focuses
on developing an understanding of the various sectors and roles involved in this complex industry. Policy and compliance issues are also addressed to
facilitate an appreciation for the highly regulated nature of healthcare delivery.
C426 - Healthcare Values and Ethics - This course explores ethical standards and considerations common to the healthcare environment such as
access to care, confidentiality, the allocation of limited resources, and billing practices. This course also focuses on the distinct value system
associated with the healthcare industry, as well as the values of professionalism.
C427 - Technology Applications in Healthcare - This course explores how technology continues to change and influence the healthcare industry.
Practical managerial applications are explored as well as the legal, ethical, and practical aspects of access to health and disease information.
Ensuring the protection of private health information is also emphasized.
C428 - Financial Resource Management in Healthcare - This course examines the financial environment of the healthcare industry including
principles involved in managed care. It also explores the revenue and expense structures for different sectors within the industry while emphasizing
funding and reimbursement practices of healthcare.
C429 - Healthcare Operations Management - This course builds upon basic principles of management, organizational behavior, and leadership.
Specific processes and business principles for managing operations in interdependent and multi-disciplinary healthcare organizations are explored.
Marketing strategies, communication skills, and the ability to establish and maintain relationships while ensuring productivity that is efficient, safe, and
meets the needs of all stakeholders is emphasized.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 156
C430 - Healthcare Quality Improvement and Risk Management - This course emphasizes principles of quality management and risk management
in order to ensure safety, maximize patient outcomes, and continuously improve organizational outcomes. This course also examines the broader
impact of organizational culture and its influence on productivity, quality, and risk.
C431 - Healthcare Research and Statistics - This course builds upon an understanding of research methods and quantitative analysis. Concepts of
population health, epidemiology, and evidence-based practices provide the foundation for understanding the importance of data for informing
healthcare organizational decisions.
C432 - Healthcare Management and Strategy - This course builds upon basic principles of strategic management and explores healthcare
organizational structures and processes. The importance of the collaborative nature and interrelationships among business functions is emphasized.
Creating a healthcare vision and designing business plans within a healthcare environment is also examined.
C439 - Healthcare Management Capstone - This course is the culminating experience and assessment of healthcare business administration. This
course requires the student to integrate and synthesize managerial skills with healthcare knowledge, resulting in a high quality final project that
demonstrates professional managerial proficiency.
C453 - Clinical Microbiology - Clinical Microbiology introduces general concepts, methods, and applications of microbiology from a health sciences
perspective. The course is designed to provide healthcare professionals with a basic understanding of how various diseases are transmitted and
controlled. Students will examine the structure and function of microorganisms, including the roles that they play in causing major diseases. The
course also explores immunological, pathological and epidemiological factors associated with disease. To assist students in developing an applied,
patient-focused understanding of microbiology, this course is complimented by several lab experiments which allow students to: practice aseptic
techniques, grow bacteria and fungi, identify characteristics of bacteria and yeast based on biochemical and environmental tests, determine antibiotic
susceptibility, discover the microorganisms growing on objects and surfaces, and determine the Gram characteristic of bacteria. This course has no
pre-requisites.
C455 - English Composition I - English Composition I introduces learners to the types of writing and thinking that are valued in college and beyond.
Students will practice writing in several genres with emphasis placed on writing and revising academic arguments. Instruction and exercises in
grammar, mechanics, research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as necessary.
Comp I is a foundational course designed to help students prepare for success at the college level.
There are no prerequisites for English Composition I.
C456 - English Composition II - English Composition II introduces undergraduate students to research writing. It is a foundational course designed to
help students prepare for advanced writing within the discipline and to complete the capstone. Specifically, this course will help students develop or
improve research, reference citation, document organization, and writing skills. English Composition I or equivalent is a prerequisite for this course.
C458 - Health, Fitness and Wellness - Health, Fitness and Wellness focuses on the importance and foundations of good health and physical fitness,
particularly for children and adolescents, addressing health, nutrition, fitness, and substance use and abuse.
C459 - Introduction to Probability and Statistics - In this course, students demonstrate competency in the basic concepts, logic, and issues
involved in statistical reasoning. Topics include summarizing and analyzing data, sampling and study design, and probability.
C460 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators I - Mathematics for Elementary Educators I engages pre-service elementary teachers in
mathematical practices based on deep understanding of underlying concepts. The course covers important topics in problem solving, set theory,
number theory, whole numbers and integers. This is the first course in a three-course sequence.
C461 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators II - This course engages pre-service elementary teachers in mathematical practices based on deep
understanding of underlying concepts. This course takes the arithmetic of the first course and generalizes it into algebraic reasoning. The course also
touches on important topics in probability. This is the second course in a three-course sequence.
C462 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III engages pre-service elementary teachers in
mathematical practices based on deep understanding of underlying concepts. The course covers important topics in statistics, measurement, and
covers geometry from synthetic, transformational, and coordinate perspectives. This is the third course in a three-course sequence.
C463 - Intermediate Algebra - This course provides an introduction of algebraic concepts and the development of the essential groundwork for
College Algebra. Topics include: A review of basic mathematical skills, the real number system, algebraic expressions, linear equations, graphing,
exponents and polynomials
C464 - Introduction to Communication - This introductory communication course allows students to become familiar with the fundamental
communication theories and practices necessary to engage in healthy professional and personal relationships. Students will survey human
communication on multiple levels and critically apply the theoretical grounding of the course to interpersonal, intercultural, small group, and public
presentational contexts. The course also encourages students to consider the influence of language, perception, culture, and media on their daily
communicative interactions. In addition to theory, students will engage in the application of effective communication skills through systematically
preparing and delivering an oral presentation. By practicing these fundamental skills in human communication, students become more competent
communicators as they develop more flexible, useful, and discriminatory communicative practices in a variety of contexts.
Note: There are references within this video to Taskstream. If Taskstream is not part of your student experience, please disregard, and locate your
task(s) within your course.
C465 - Care of the Developing Family - The Care of the Developing Family Clinical and Simulation course includes all aspects of clinical learning
related to care of the developing family nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assesses advancing clinical competencies through the use of
high-fidelity simulation and advanced clinical debriefing for clinical scenarios. Students engage in scenarios that represent patients with gestational
diabetes, a normal vaginal delivery, placenta previa, pre-eclampsia and post-partum hemorrhage. Learner competency will be assessed through
performance in the clinical intensive for Care of the Developing Family. Topics include care of the family during the prenatal period; care of the family
during the intrapartum period; care of the postpartum family; and health promotion of the family.
C466 - Medication Dosage Calculations - In Medication Dosage Calculations, students learn about individualized drug dosing concepts, including:
different measurement systems, solid and liquid medications, calculating dosages based on body weight or body surface area, interpreting drug labels
and abbreviations, and common medication errors.
C467 - Pharmacology - Pharmacology covers concepts in pharmacology, including drug classification and effects, the role of the nurse in drug
therapy, preparation and administration of drugs, and ethical and legal issues surrounding medication administration. The Institute of Medicine reports
that cited medication errors as the most common medical errors, costing billions of dollars and harming up to 1.5 million people every year. Medication
errors are often the result of nurses failing to follow proper procedures. The pharmacology course covers the following concepts: the nursing process
in relation to drug therapy; the role of pharmacological principles in nursing; the role of the nurse in pharmacy and lifespan considerations; cultural,
ethical, and legal considerations; education and substance abuse; and gene therapy and pharmacology. This course introduces the nursing student to
these concepts and continues to integrate pharmacology throughout the clinical courses within the program.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 157
C468 - Information Management and the Application of Technology - Information Management and the Application of Technology helps the
student learn how to identify and implement the unique responsibilities of nurses related to the application of technology and the management of
patient information. This includes: understanding the evolving role of nurse informaticists; demonstrating the skills needed to use electronic health
records; identifying nurse-sensitive outcomes that lead to quality improvement measures; supporting the contributions of nurses to patient care;
examining workflow changes related to the implementation of computerized management systems; and learning to analyze the implications of new
technology on security, practice, and research.
C469 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I introduces nursing fundamentals
that speak to the core of all nursing care by assessing the needs of patients with compassion and respect; advocating for patients and their families;
providing education and comfort; and integrating patient needs into a plan of care that embraces individuality, diversity, and belief. This course allows
students to learn about fundamental nursing skills within their didactic environment and practice in a learning lab environment.
C470 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical Learning - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical
Learning includes all aspects of clinical learning related to the fundamentals of nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess task skill
knowledge including physical assessment, safe medication administration, and oxygenation; nutrition, metabolism, and elimination; skin integrity,
activity, and mobility; and cognition. This course provides an opportunity for students who are successful in lab assessments to progress to live patient
clinicals. During clinicals, students will be assessed for their mastery of basic levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of a novice nursing
student.
C471 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II topics include management of
the perioperative care continuum; patient-centered care of the adult; care of the adult with alterations in circulation; care of the adult with alterations in
cardiovascular function; care of the adult with alterations in oxygenation; care of the adult with alterations in neurosensory function; fundamental
patient self-determination and advocacy; and end-of-life care. This course incorporates virtual simulations into the didactic course to help students
prepare for their learning labs and clinical learning experience. Patient scenarios for the virtual simulations include: fluid and electrolyte imbalance;
blood transfusion reaction; severe reaction to an antibiotic; pulmonary embolism; and postoperative complications with a fracture.
C472 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II Clinical Learning - The clinical learning course for CASAL II includes all aspects of
clinical learning related to medical surgical nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess task skill knowledge progressing to high fidelity
simulation scenarios to develop mastery of situated use of knowledge and synthesis of knowledge in clinical scenarios that focus on perioperative
care. The virtual simulations that students completed in didactic will prepare them for their learning lab scenarios. Students who are successful in lab
assessments will progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their mastery of basic levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of
Medical Surgical nursing.
C473 - Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses - The Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses course builds on prior knowledge of medical surgical
nursing care and common conditions, focusing on diseases and conditions that affect the neuromuscular system, the musculoskeletal system, the
kidneys, the pancreas, and diseases such as cancer and impaired immunity, which affect every part of the body. Students will develop mastery of
competencies related to advanced medical surgical nursing practice. This course also utilizes virtual simulation scenarios to help students prepare for
their learning labs and their clinical intensives. Students work through the following patient scenarios: diabetes/hypoglycemia; postop abdominal
hysterectomy/opioid intoxication; acute severe asthma; acute myocardial infarction; and respiratory system disease.
C474 - Clinical Learning for Complex Illnesses in Adults - Clinical Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses includes all aspects of clinical learning
related to advanced medical surgical nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess advanced clinical competencies through the use of high-
fidelity simulation and advanced clinical debriefing for clinical scenarios. Students participate in skills related to advance medication administration,
central venous devices, and peripherally inserted central catheters. The virtual simulations that students completed in didactic will prepare them for
their learning lab scenarios. Students who are successful in simulation assessments will progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their
mastery of advanced levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of medical surgical nursing.
C475 - Care of the Older Adult - Care of the Older Adult adapts the concepts from prior coursework to the care of older adults. An understanding of
the effects that policy and legislation have on how healthcare systems treat aging patients sets a foundation for improving their care. Students will
apply health assessment skills and evidence-based standards in such a way to account for the specific needs of older adults. Emphasis is placed on
the importance of maintaining the dignity of older adults by focusing on cultural, religious, spiritual, and communication needs, and by collaborating on
care with older adults, families, and caregivers.
C476 - Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing - In Psych/Mental Health, students will discover the many faces of mental illness and the role that the
nursing profession plays in managing care of patients and families struggling with a mental illness. Caring for patients with mental illness requires
patience and true compassion, a commitment to patient advocacy, and an in-depth understanding of psychopharmacology. Students will work through
current issues in mental health; take a look at ethical and legal issues in mental health; review foundations of practice and nursing assessment; learn
about therapeutic interventions and crisis management; learn about various mental health disorders and the care of these patients.
C477 - Nursing Care of Children - Nursing Care of Children explores the many facets of the pediatric population. The course materials cover the
following topics: well-child care; growth and development; immunizations; community health; health trends in pediatrics; disease processes of the
cardio-pulmonary system, the neurological system, gastrointestinal system, genitourinary system, respiratory system, integumentary system,
endocrine system, musculoskeletal and neuromusculoskeletal system; safe administration of medications, pain management, and hospitalization of
the pediatric population. This course also utilizes the virtual simulations to prepare students for their learning lab and clinical experience. The
scenarios covered with the virtual simulations include: anaphylaxis; pneumonia leading to respiratory distress (asthma); dehydration; generalized
tonic-clonic seizures; and sickle cell anemia.
C478 - Critical Care Nursing Clinical Learning - Critical care environments are not limited to the intensive care unit, but can occur in emergency
departments, in surgery, during transport, and sometimes during a disaster. The Critical Care Nursing course introduces students to the critical care
environment and includes such topics as moral distress, the role of the critical care nurse, legal and ethical issues, health disparity, sleep deprivation,
psychosocial needs of not only patients but also their families, and end-of-life care. This course then takes a more in-depth look at the various system
failures students might encounter in a critical care setting, including the pulmonary and cardiac systems, hemodynamics and neurology, the endocrine
and renal systems, the gastrointestinal system, shock, and hematology. At this point in the program, students are beginning to refine their critical
thinking skills by integrating their understanding of physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and the nursing process and applying this to various
situations experienced by patients and their families.
C480 - Networks - Networks for undergraduates focuses on the general concepts and applications of computer operating systems and network
topologies. The fundamental knowledge and skills gained in this course prepares students for the CompTIA Network+ (N10-007) certification exam.
C172 is a pre-requisite for this course, and should be completed prior to beginning Networks, C480.
C482 - Software I - Software I builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for Java application development. You
will learn about and put into action class design, exception handling, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop software that
meets business requirements. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming.
C483 - Principles of Management - This course addresses strategic planning, total quality, entrepreneurship, conflict and change,
human resource management, diversity, and organizational structure.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 158
C484 - Organizational Behavior and Leadership - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse
business environments. The course requires students to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management
strategies in a series of scenario-based problems.
C486 - Organizational Systems: Safety and Regulation - The Organizational Systems course of study presents the required sequence of learning
activities developed to assist you in achieving competency in the safety and regulatory requirements mandated by the Joint Commission and
Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHA). This course represents one competency unit and should be completed in one week. Learning
activities are presented in a sequential order and often build upon prior activities and skills; it is therefore important that you complete the course of
study in the order presented.
C487 - Psych/Mental Health Clinical - The clinical experience for psychiatric/mental health differs from other clinical intensives. Students are
required to have a total of 90 hours of clinical time and must document their hours on a time log. They will have a total of 72 scheduled. Students will
be assessed of their advancing for their mastery of advancing levels of key behaviors in the psychiatric/mental health clinical.
C488 - Critical Care Nursing - Critical care environments are not limited to the intensive care unit, but can occur in emergency departments, surgery,
during transport, and sometimes during a disaster. The Critical Care Nursing course introduces the student to the critical care environment and
includes such topics as moral distress, the role of the critical care nurse, legal and ethical issues, health disparity, sleep deprivation, psychosocial
needs of not only the patient but their family, and end of life care. This course then takes a more in depth look at the various system failures students
might encounter in a critical care setting to include the pulmonary and cardiac systems; hemodynamics and neurology; endocrine and renal systems;
gastrointestinal system; shock; and hematology. At this point in the program the student is beginning to refine their critical thinking skills by integrating
their understanding of physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and the nursing process and applying this to various situations experience by the patient
and their family.
C489 - Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership - Nurses serve as clinicians, managers, and mentors to shape the future of healthcare and
impact patient care outcomes in positive ways. This course will help students to be more confident and better prepared to assume leadership roles
regardless of their position in the healthcare delivery system.This advanced leadership course focuses on the concepts of Patient Safety,
Improvement science, balancing cost, quality and access through the triple aim, leadership and patient/family centered care. Students will develop
mastery of advanced competencies particularly in patient safety in quality improvement science.
C490 - Professional Nursing Role Transition - This course is a three-part course: preparing for the NCLEX; leadership learning experience; and
professional portfolio.
After graduating from a nursing program, the student must take and pass the NCLEX-RN®. This is a high-stakes licensing exam and success on the
first attempt is very important. In order to prepare for the possibility of taking the long exam, students will need to practice taking longer exams; and
build up stamina to sit and concentrate that long. In this course, students will create an intense study plan and pass complete an NCLEX-RN predictor
exam.
Students will also complete a Leadership Learning Experience (LLE) is designed to help the student learn more about the various roles of a healthcare
team. The student will participate in a specified number of interdisciplinary team meetings during a clinical experience. The student may observe the
various roles, but participation in the meetings will help with growth and learning. Successful completion of a written paper will satisfy this portion of
the course.
The professional portfolio will showcase student accomplishments, knowledge, and skills and will increase marketability as a baccalaureate-prepared
nurse, and focuses on the concepts strengths, and clinical reasoning abilities that define professional nursing practice. A passing grade of the
submitted portfolio will satisfy this portion of the course.
C491 - Nursing Clinical Practicum - Before graduating, nursing students need to experience clinical as an independent member of the nursing team
who manages a standard patient load. Working under the supervision of a preceptor, the student will have an opportunity to test clinical reasoning,
patient care management, delegation and organizational skills in caring for a group of patients to complete 180 hours of supervised clinical practice.
The student is working to transition from novice student nurse to novice clinical nurse.
C492 - Physical Assessment - The physical assessment course is designed to help students build a cognitive understanding of a physical
assessment, as well as the skills used to conduct a physical assessment on patients across the lifespan. Students will work through activities that
enhance their learning and understanding of the physical assessment. These include learning about the importance of the health history, working
through the body systems through readings, case studies, and virtual simulations. Interviewing and advance history taking are an integral part of the
assessment process along with the skills to complete a primary physical assessment. Students will master these assessment competencies through
the use of virtual simulation reality experiences as well as demonstrating their competency in all aspects of physical assessment. This course is
taught in tandem with the Caring Arts and Sciences Across the Lifespan Part 1 course.
C493 - Leadership and Professional Image - Nursing is a practice discipline that includes direct and indirect care activities that affect health
outcomes. Baccalaureate nursing students are developing new competencies in leadership, and in order to achieve mastery, must apply those
competencies to live practice experiences and situations. In this course students will complete a Leadership Learning Experience (LLE) and develop
their own personal professional portfolio. The professional portfolio is a collection of artifacts from BSN coursework as well as a resume and personal
statement.
C494 - Advanced Standing for RN License - Advanced Standing for RN License
C498 - MS, Information Technology Management Capstone - MSITM Capstone course challenges students to demonstrate mastery of all the
MSITM program outcomes. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project.
C504 - Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Management Level - This course supports the assessment for Professional Practice:
Management Portfolio II. The purpose of PPE II is to expound your experience by having you practice your future profession at the supervisory level.
Any site where health information is used and you can be mentored by a department or facility manager is appropriate for PPE II.
C509 - Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Technical Level - The Professional Practice Experience (PPE) is your opportunity to put
into practice all the health informatics/information management (HIIM) theories you have been studying. Any site where health information is managed
in any form is a potential PPE site. PPE sites can be healthcare facilities, pharmaceutical firms, software vendors, regional health information
exchanges, insurance companies, or healthcare research organizations. In addition, larger healthcare organizations may have experiences available
to you in their cancer registries, information technology department, finance/business offices, compliance office, quality assurance, utilization review,
or risk management departments.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 159
C540 - MS SPED Teacher Work Sample - The capstone of the MSSP is a 240-hour practicum. The hours for the practicum activities have been
predetermined and are included in the MSSP Practicum Log. Activities include: interviews, observations, IEP development and meetings, professional
growth, professional development readings, video reflections, teacher work sample (TWS aka Teacher Performance Assessment or TPA), and six
supervised observations.
Each supervised observation must occur on different days and for a duration of 45 minutes minimum. Supervised observations and evaluations will be
documented and submitted electronically by the clinical supervisor. The observations include 3 lessons taught at the elementary level (1-5 grade multi-
subject elementary classroom or 6th grade non-departmentalized multi-subject elementary classroom) and 3 at the secondary level (7-12). Lessons
should be taught with individual students and small groups within an inclusion class, in core subjects – math, language arts/English, science, and
social studies.
C551 - Foundational Perspectives of Education - This course provides an introduction to the historical, legal, and philosophical foundations of
education. Current educational trends, reform movements, major federal and state laws, legal and ethical responsibilities, and an overview of
standards-based curriculum are the focus of the course. The course of study presents a discussion of changes and challenges in contemporary
education. It covers the diversity found in American schools, introduces emerging educational technology trends, and provides an overview of
contemporary topics in education.
C553 - Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation - Students will learn the foundations for effective classroom management as well as
strategies for creating a safe, positive learning environment for all learners. Students will be introduced to systems that promote student self-
awareness, self-management, self-efficacy, and self-esteem. In this course, students will engage practical application via ten hours of video classroom
observations. Students will reflect on how teachers use rules/procedures to maximize student learning and on what makes a highly effective
classroom environment. As part of a culminating experience in this course, students will, through the video observation reflections, describe their
current teaching philosophy related to classroom environment and management.
C554 - Educational Assessment - Educational Assessment assists students in making appropriate data-driven instructional decisions by exploring
key concepts relevant to the administration, scoring, and interpretation of classroom assessments. Topics include ethical assessment practices,
designing assessments, aligning assessments, and utilizing technology for assessment.
C561 - MS, Curriculum and Instruction Capstone - MS, Curriculum and Instruction Capstone takes the student through the steps of planning and
conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. Students will design, deliver, and evaluate a curriculum and
instructional unit based on their content area. They will implement curriculum and instruction, and evaluate the effectiveness.
C572 - Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation - Students will learn the foundations for effective classroom management as well as
strategies for creating a safe, positive learning environment for all learners. Students will be introduced to systems that promote student self-
awareness, self-management, self-efficacy, and self-esteem. In this course, students will engage practical application via ten hours of video classroom
observations. Students will reflect on how teachers use rules/procedures to maximize student learning and on what makes a highly effective
classroom environment. As part of a culminating experience in this course, students will, through the video observation reflections, describe their
current teaching philosophy related to classroom environment and management.
C612 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful secondary mathematics teachers. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, Pre-
Calculus, Calculus I, and Calculus II. Linear Algebra, and Calculus III are recommended.
C613 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Middle School Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine
and integrate the mathematics content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful middle school mathematics teachers. A high level of
mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College
Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and Pre-Calculus.
C614 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student’s conceptual understanding of a broad range of biology
topics. High school biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. For example, when studying hormones created by
endocrine glands traveling through the circulatory system to maintain homeostasis, a student is connecting many biology topics. This course starts
with macromolecules that make up cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist.
Connections are then made between genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ
systems and their role in maintaining homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and the affect humans have on the environment.
C615 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include mechanics, electricity and magnetism, optics and waves, heat and thermodynamics, modern
physics, atomic and nuclear structure, the history and nature of science, science technology, and social perspectives.
C616 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle-level science teacher is expected to
know and understand. Topics include scientific methodologies, history of science, basic science principles, physical sciences, life sciences, earth and
space sciences, and the role of science and technology and their impact on society.
C617 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - Chemistry: Content Knowledge provides advanced instruction in the main areas of chemistry for which
secondary chemistry teachers are expected to demonstrate competency. Topics include matter and energy, thermochemistry, structure, bonding,
reactivity, biochemistry and organic chemistry, solutions, nature of science, technology and social perspectives, mathematics, and laboratory
procedures.
C618 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary earth/space science teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of earth and space sciences, tectonics and internal earth processes, earth
materials and surface processes, history of Earth and its life-forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphere, and
astronomy.
C624 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application! Be sure to understand the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how
it is applied. By successfully completing this course, you will gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. You
will also begin to see the importance of this subject matter to health.
C625 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids.
This course focuses on application! Be sure to understand the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how it is applied. By successfully completing
this course, you will gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. You will also begin to see the importance of
this subject matter to health.
C626 - MED, Learning and Technology Capstone - MED, Learning and Technology Capstone takes the student through the steps of planning and
conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. Students will design, manage, and develop an instructional product for
which there is an identified need, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and reporting of results.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 160
C635 - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone Written Project takes the student through the
steps of planning and conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. The result is expected to be a significant piece
of research, culminating in a written research report, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and
reporting of results.
C636 - MED, Instructional Design Capstone - MED, Instructional Design Capstone Written Project is the culminating assessment where learners
should be able to integrate and synthesize competencies from across the degree program and thereby demonstrate the ability to participate in and
contribute value to their chosen professional field.
C645 - Science Methods - Science Methods provides an introduction to teaching methods specific to science for graduate students seeking initial
licensure or an additional endorsement in secondary biology, chemistry, geosciences, physics, or middle grades general science. Course content
focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices,
crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work
within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and
certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A
prerequisite for students seeking initial licensure is Instructional Planning and Presentation. There are no prerequisites for students seeking an
endorsement in a new content area.
C646 - Trigonometry and Precalculus - Trigonometry and Precalculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex
numbers, systems of equations, vectors and matrices, and sequences and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life
problems. Topics include degrees; radians and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming
trigonometric functions and their inverses; solving trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar
approaches to complex numbers; DeMoivre's Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations;
systems of inequalities; and arithmetic and geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
C647 - Trigonometry and Precalculus - Trigonometry and Precalculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex
numbers, systems of equations, vectors and matrices, and sequences and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life
problems. Topics include degrees; radians and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming
trigonometric functions and their inverses; solving trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar
approaches to complex numbers; DeMoivre's Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations;
systems of inequalities; and arithmetic and geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
C649 - Geology I: Physical - Geology I: Physical provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary science
education with an introduction to minerals and rocks, the physical features of the Earth, and the internal and surface processes that shape those
features. This course has no prerequisites.
C650 - Geology I: Physical - Geology I: Physical provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree
in secondary science education with an introduction to minerals and rocks, the physical features of the Earth, and the internal and surface processes
that shape those features. This course has no prerequisites.
C652 - Heredity and Genetics - Heredity and Genetics is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement
in secondary or middle grade science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the function of molecular genetics. Topics
include Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance and population genetics. This course has no prerequisites.
C653 - Heredity and Genetics - Heredity and Genetics is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or
to earn their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the function of
molecular genetics. Topics include Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance and population genetics. This course has no prerequisites.
C654 - Zoology - Zoology provides undergraduate students seeking licensure or endorsement in secondary science education with an introduction to
the field of zoology. Zoology includes the study of major animal phyla emphasizing characteristics, variations in anatomy, life cycles, adaptations, and
relationships among the animal kingdom. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C655 - Zoology - Zoology provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or their MA degree in secondary science education with
an introduction to the field of zoology. Zoology includes the study of major animal phyla emphasizing characteristics, variations in anatomy, life cycles,
adaptations, and relationships among the animal kingdom. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C656 - Calculus III - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and skills necessary
to apply calculus of multiple variables while using the appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include: infinite series and
convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating), power series, taylor polynomials, vectors, lines and planes in three dimensions,
dot and cross products, multivariable functions, limits, and continuity, partial derivatives, directional derivatives, gradients, tangent planes, normal
lines, and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
C657 - Calculus III - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and skills necessary
to apply calculus of multiple variables while using the appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include: infinite series and
convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating), power series,taylor polynomials, vectors, lines and planes in three dimensions,
dot and cross products, multivariable functions, limits, and continuity, partial derivatives, directional derivatives, gradients, tangent planes, normal
lines, and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
C659 - Conceptual Physics - Conceptual Physics provides a broad, conceptual overview of the main principles of physics, including mechanics,
thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and electricity and magnetism. Problem-solving activities and laboratory experiments provide
students with opportunities to apply these main principles, creating a strong foundation for future studies in physics. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
C670 - Concepts in Science - Concepts in Science for graduates provides already-licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
science education with an introduction to essential science themes present within and across all science disciplines, including chemistry, physics,
biology, and the geosciences. These themes include comprehending the magnitude of the physical and natural world, analyzing and converting
measurements, understanding the basic nature and behavior of matter and energy, examining atomic structure, identifying and naming basic types of
chemical bonds, and analyzing and interpreting scientific data. Concepts in Science provides a solid foundation for future, in-depth, scientific studies
and should be taken prior to any other science content course. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C672 - General Chemistry I with Lab - General Chemistry I with Lab for graduates provides already-licensed teachers seeking an additional license
or endorsement in secondary chemistry, with an introduction to the field of chemistry, the branch of science that studies the composition, structure,
properties, and behavior of matter. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure of atoms, study periodic
trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical reactions, and discover the
changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and maintenance procedures.
Concepts in Science is a prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 161
C673 - General Chemistry II with Lab - C673: General Chemistry II with Lab for graduates continues the study of general chemistry for already-
licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in secondary chemistry. Building on the topics covered in General Chemistry I,
General Chemistry II examines the behavior of gases and solutions, reaction rates and equilibrium, acids and bases, and oxidation-reduction
reactions. Also, this course provides an introduction to three subdisciplines of chemistry: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and nuclear chemistry.
Laboratory experiences reinforce the essential skills required for conducting successful scientific investigations. C672: General Chemistry I for
graduates is a prerequisite for this course.
C682 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III engages pre-service elementary teachers in
mathematical practices based on deep understanding of underlying concepts. The course covers important topics in statistics, measurement, and
covers geometry from synthetic, transformational, and coordinate perspectives. This is the third course in a three-course sequence.
C683 - Natural Science Lab - This course gives you an introduction to using the scientific method and engaging in scientific research to reach
conclusions about the natural world. You will design and carry out an experiment to investigate a hypothesis by gathering quantitative data.
C697 - Operating Systems I - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Linux+ Part I.
C698 - Operating Systems II - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Linux+ Part II.
C700 - Secure Network Design - Secure Network Design covers topics for designing and protecting computer networks. Course topics emphasize
secure physical and logical network architecture design for both wired and wireless networks. Secure Network Design provides students the
opportunity to recognize secure network characteristics, apply techniques to securely configure network devices, propose network segmentation
strategies, perform root cause analysis, and recommend mitigation approaches based on industry best practices. There are no prerequisites for this
course
C701 - Ethical Hacking - Ethical Hacking builds the skills necessary to protect an organization's information system from unauthorized access and
system hacking. Topics include security threats, penetration testing, vulnerability analysis, risk mitigation, business-related issues, and
countermeasures. Students will learn how to expose system vulnerabilities, find solutions for eliminating and preventing them, and apply hacking skills
on different types of networks and platforms. This course prepares students for the following certification exam: EC-Council’s Certified Ethical Hacker
exam (312-50). This course has no prerequisites.
C702 - Forensics and Network Intrusion - Forensics and Network Intrusion builds proficiency in detecting hacking attacks and properly extracting
evidence to report the crime and conduct audits to prevent future attacks. Topics include computer forensics in today’s world; media and operating
system forensics; data and file forensics; audits and investigations; and device forensics. This course prepares students for the following certification
exam: EC-Council Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator. This course has no prerequisites.
C706 - Secure Software Design - Secure Software Design focuses on the variety of elements needed to address and implement secure software
acquisition and development throughout the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). It covers the end-to-end principles and addresses people,
technology (tools), and processes to design and develop consistently secure applications. Additionally, this course underscores the importance and
value of the defense in depth principle across the entire SDLC. Finally, this course introduces techniques to adapt common security activities to
modern software development practices, including Agile/Scrum and DevOps. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C708 - Principles of Finance - Principles of Finance is an introductory course that provides an overview of time-honored business financial concepts
and rules, including financial management and maximization of shareholder wealth. Using business cases and scenarios, students gain an
understanding of the financial market environment, financial statement analysis, ratio calculations and analysis, the time value of money, interest
rates, pricing of stocks and bonds, financial forecasting, the trade-off between risk and return, and the capital budgeting process.
C712 - Marketing Fundamentals - Marketing Fundamentals introduces students to principles of the marketing environment, social media, consumer
behavior, marketing research, and market segmentation. Students will also explore marketing strategies that are related to products and services,
distribution channels, promotions, sales, and pricing.
C713 - Business Law - Law is a fundamental part of business, largely associated with laws and legal regulations, which are becoming more complex.
Business law encompasses laws that dictate how to form and run a business. This governs the process involved in starting, buying, managing, and
closing or selling any type of business. This course introduces students to business law. Topics include the nature of law, the role of legislatures and
courts, as well as contract law. Students analyze examples of business activities to learn whether specific laws apply. Legal reasoning and critical
analysis are introduced alongside tort law, intellectual property, and agency law. Emphasis is placed on legal ethics, criminal and corporate law, real
and personal property, and the types of business organizations. Students learn about the formation and application of law to business. This course is
designed to make business managers, owners, and executives more aware of the many legal issues that may arise in the day-to-day operation of any
business and in personal life. At a minimum, students need to know what conduct is legal and ethical and what is not. Students should also be able to
identify legal problems before they become an issue, opportunities to use the law to create value and manage risk, and times to seek the advice of a
licensed attorney. Understanding law will give students the edge as business leaders!
C714 - Business Strategy - Strategy, Change and Organizational Behavior Concepts addresses complex material in the areas of organizational
behavior and strategic quality management. Topics include strategic planning, and competitive advantage.
This course focuses on models and practices of strategic management, including developing and implementing a strategy and evaluating performance
to achieve strategic goals and objectives.
C715 - Organizational Behavior - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse business
environments. The course requires students to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management strategies in a
series of scenario-based problems.
C716 - Business Communication - Business Communication is a survey course of communication skills needed in the business environment.
Course content includes writing messages, reports, and résumés and delivering oral presentations. The course emphasizes communication
processes, writing skills, message types, and presentation of data. The development of these skills is integrated with the use of technology.
C717 - Business Ethics - Business Ethics is designed to enable students to identify the ethical and socially responsible courses of actions available
through the exploration of various scenarios in business. Students will also learn to develop appropriate ethics guidelines for a business. This course
has no prerequisites.
C718 - Microeconomics - Microeconomics introduces undergraduate students to foundational economic concepts. Students will learn how
households and firms allocate their scarce resources to maximize utility and profit respectively. Upon completion of this course, students will be able to
explain opportunity costs and the importance of competition. They will also know how demand and supply work to determine equilibrium price and
quantity in perfectly competitive markets and under monopolistic competition, oligopoly, and monopoly. Recommended prerequisites: College Algebra
or equivalent.
C719 - Macroeconomics - Macroeconomics provides you with an in-depth overview of the economy as a whole. The course covers market structure,
essential models, theories, and policies that affect international and domestic economic systems. You will learn how the economy operates and how
society manages its costs, benefits, and trade-offs when allocating scarce resources through market demand and supply. Other topics include how
output and growth in the economy are measured with GDP and how the government and Federal Reserve influence growth, unemployment, and
inflation through fiscal and monetary policy.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 162
C720 - Operations and Supply Chain Management - Operations and Supply Chain Management provides a streamlined introduction to how
organizations efficiently produce goods and services, determine supply chain management strategies, and measure performance. Emphasis is placed
on integrative topics essential for managers in all disciplines, such as supply chain management, product development, and capacity planning. You
will learn how to analyze processes, manage quality for both services and products, and measure performance, while creating value along the supply
chain in a global environment. Topics include forecasting, product and service design, process design and location analysis, capacity planning,
management of quality and quality control, inventory management, scheduling, supply chain management, and performance measurement.
C721 - Change Management - Change Management provides an understanding of change and an overview of successfully managing change using
various methods and tools. Emphasizing change theories and various best practices, you will learn how to recognize and implement change using an
array of other effective strategies, including those related to innovation and leadership. Other topics include approaches to change, diagnosing and
planning for change, implementing change, and sustaining change.
C722 - Project Management - Project Management prepares you to manage projects from start to finish within any organizational structure. The
course presents a view into different project-management methods and delves into topics such as project profiling and phases, constraints, building
the project team, scheduling, and risk. You will be able to grasp the full scope of projects you may work on in the future, and apply the proper
management approaches to complete a project. The course features practice in each of the project phases as you learn how to strategically apply
project-management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their goals.
C723 - Quantitative Analysis For Business - Quantitative Analysis for Business explores various decision-making models, including expected value
models, linear programming models, and inventory models. You will learn to analyze data by using a variety of analytic tools and techniques to make
better business decisions. In addition, you will develop project schedules using the Critical Path Method. Other topics include calculating and
evaluating formulas, measures of uncertainty, crash costs, and visual representation of decision-making models using electronic spreadsheets and
graphs. This course has no prerequisites.
C724 - Information Systems Management - Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of information systems
applicable to business. The course explores the importance of viewing information technology (IT) as an organizational resource that must be
managed, so that it supports or enables organizational strategy.
C725 - Information Security and Assurance - Information Security and Assurance explores the many facets of the information security landscape.
Recognizing that there are no universal solutions to issues related to information security and assurance, this course covers the durable security
principles that help to drive sound decisions. Additionally, this course introduces well-accepted risk-management principles that help to appropriately
secure information assets. Finally, the course illustrates how a comprehensive library of policies, standards, and procedures are used to secure assets
and provide the required levels of regulatory compliance. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C726 - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering prepares students to implement and manage
security engineering tasks and processes using secure design principles grounded in positive security engineering. It covers the fundamental concepts
of confidentiality and integrity security models along with applied cryptography for implementation of these models. Additionally, this course helps
students assess and mitigate vulnerabilities found in security designs, architectures, and solutions. Finally, this course introduces techniques to design
and implement physical security controls for data centers and other large implementations of IT. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C727 - Cybersecurity Management I - Strategic - Cybersecurity Management I - Strategic focuses on the strategic and long-term alignment of an
organization’s information security program to regulators and ensures that it is appropriate to the company culture and management organization. This
course introduces the Basel Committee’s “four lines of defense” model to appropriately implement separation of duties and information security roles
and structures. Additionally, this course covers big-picture items (e.g., how risk management will be performed institutionally and how compliance to
information security requirements will be managed). Finally, this course helps students apply strategic decision-making as companies adapt to new
technologies, processes, and people practices related to processing, managing, and protecting information resources. The Cybersecurity Architecture
and Engineering course is a prerequisite for this course.
C728 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in middle and high
school improve upon the literacy skills required to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Themes
include exploring how language structures, text features, vocabulary, and context influence reading comprehension across the curriculum. Course
content highlights strategies and tools designed to help teachers assess the reading comprehension and writing proficiency of learners and provides
strategies to support students' reading and writing success in all curriculum areas. This course has no prerequisites.
C729 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in middle and high
school improve upon the literacy skills required to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Themes
include exploring how language structures, text features, vocabulary, and context influence reading comprehension across the curriculum. Course
content highlights strategies and tools designed to help teachers assess the reading comprehension and writing proficiency of learners and provides
strategies to support students' reading and writing success in all curriculum areas. This course has no prerequisites.
C730 - Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions - Secondary Reading Instruction and Intervention explores the comprehensive, student-
centered Response to Intervention (RTI) assessment and intervention model used to identify and address the needs of learners in middle school and
high school who struggle with reading comprehension and/or information retention. Course content provides educators with effective strategies
designed to scaffold instruction and help learners develop increased skill in the following areas: reading, vocabulary, text structures and genres, and
logical reasoning related to the academic disciplines. This course has no prerequisites.
C731 - Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions - Secondary Reading Instruction and Intervention explores the comprehensive, student-
centered Response to Intervention (RTI) assessment and intervention model used to identify and address the needs of learners in middle school and
high school who struggle with reading comprehension and/or information retention. Course content provides educators with effective strategies
designed to scaffold instruction and help learners develop increased skill in the following areas: reading, vocabulary, text structures and genres, and
logical reasoning related to the academic disciplines. This course has no prerequisites.
C732 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in grades K–6
develop the literacy skills necessary to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Course content
highlights strategies to help learners distinguish between the unique characteristics of informational texts while improving comprehension and writing
proficiency across the curriculum. Strategies to encourage inquiry and cultivate skills in critical thinking, collaboration, and creativity also are
addressed. This course has no prerequisites.
C733 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in grades K–6
develop the literacy skills necessary to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Course content
highlights strategies to help learners distinguish between the unique characteristics of informational texts while improving comprehension and writing
proficiency across the curriculum. Strategies to encourage inquiry and cultivate skills in critical thinking, collaboration, and creativity also are
addressed. This course has no prerequisites.
C736 - Evolution - Students will learn why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances in
medicine, public health and conservation. Course participants will gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution including the
process of speciation --- and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. They will also explore how new ideas,
discoveries and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we know what
we know.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 163
C737 - Evolution - Students will learn why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances in
medicine, public health and conservation. Course participants will gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution including the
process of speciation --- and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. They will also explore how new ideas,
discoveries and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we know what
we know.
C738 - Space, Time and Motion - Throughout history, humans have grappled with questions about the origin, workings, and behavior of the universe.
This seminar begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers on to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton
and Albert Einstein. Einstein’s work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of motion, time, space, matter, and energy.
The course considers Einstein’s Special Theory of Relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his General Theory of Relativity and its
implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks at Einstein as a social and
political figure, and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and web resources enable
learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars, black holes, the Big Bang
and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C739 - Space, Time and Motion - Throughout history, humans have grappled with questions about the origin, workings, and behavior of the universe.
This seminar begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers on to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton
and Albert Einstein. Einstein’s work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of motion, time, space, matter, and energy.
The course considers Einstein’s Special Theory of Relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his General Theory of Relativity and its
implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks at Einstein as a social and
political figure, and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and web resources enable
learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars, black holes, the Big Bang
and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C740 - Fundamentals of Data Analytics - This courses provides an introduction to a variety of tools and techniques used in the field of data
analytics. Students will summarize data, review statistical models, explore data mining techniques, and contemplate ethical considerations associated
with the field of data analytics. This course presents a survey of concepts which will be explored more in-depth in subsequent courses in the MS Data
Analytics program.
C741 - Statistics for Data Analysis - This course covers a broad range of statistical techniques and methods applied in real-world settings. Topics
presented include inferential, parametric and non-parametric statistics, as well as regression analysis and analysis of variance.
C743 - Data Mining and Analytics I - This course is an introduction to data mining and exploratory data analysis, including text and web mining.
Topics include the use of data exploration methods to prepare data, familiarization with commercial data types commonly used for data mining, the
use of statistical and data mining software, including R, SAS and SPSS, and the comparison and classification of data mining methods.
C744 - Data Mining and Analytics II - This course examines the application of descriptive and predictive data mining techniques to reveal information
within a mass of data. Techniques include factor analysis, cluster analysis, classification methods, and neural networks to limit human subjectivity in
decision making processes.
C745 - Advanced Data Visualization - The focus of this course is visualizing and telling stories with data. This course begins with a description of the
growth of data and visualization in industry, news, and government. Actual human stories will be reviewed from a data-statistical perspective. The
creation of graphs, displays and geospatial data presentations to communicate information supporting decision making while implementing best
practices for effective storytelling will be examined.
C747 - SAS Programming I: Fundamentals - This course prepares the student for the Base Programmer for SAS 9 Certification (A00-211). Students
will achieve competencies in SAS programming that will allow them to import and export raw data files, manipulate and transform data, combine SAS
data sets, identify and correct syntax errors, and write SAS code on the SAS platform.
C748 - SAS Programming II: Business Analysis Applications - This course prepares the student for the SAS Statistical Business Analyst for SAS
9 Certification (A00-240). Students will gain competency to conduct, interpret, and present complex statistical data analysis in the SAS platform.
C749 - Introduction to Data Science - This Introduction to Data Science course introduces the data analysis process and common statistical
techniques necessary for the analysis of data. Students will ask questions that can be solved with a given data set, set up experiments, use statistics
and data wrangling to test hypotheses, find ways to speed up their data analysis code, make their data set easier to access, and communicate their
findings.
C750 - Data Wrangling with MongoDB - This course elaborates on concepts covered in Introduction to Data Science, helping to develop skills
crucial to the field of data science and analysis. It explores how to wrangle data from diverse sources and shape it to enable data-driven applications—
a common activity in many data scientists' routine.
Topics covered include gathering and extracting data from widely-used data formats, assessing the quality of data, and exploring best practices for
data cleaning. This course also introduces MongoDB, covering the essentials of storing data and the MongoDB query language together with
exploratory analysis using the MongoDB aggregation framework.
C751 - Data Analysis with R - This course focuses on exploratory data analysis (EDA) utilizing R. EDA is an approach for summarizing and
visualizing the important characteristics of a data set. Exploratory data analysis focuses on exploring data to understand the data’s underlying
structure and variables to develop intuition about the data set, to consider how that data set came into existence, and to decide how it can be
investigated with more formal statistical methods.
C753 - Machine Learning - This course presents the end-to-end process of investigating data through a machine learning lens. Topics covered
include: techniques for extracting data, identifying useful features that best represent data, a survey of commonly-used machine learning algorithms,
and methods for evaluating the performance of machine learning algorithms.
C755 - Database Server Administration - This course covers the installation, configuration, and administration of database servers. Students will be
introduced to all the logical and physical components of a database server and learn to set up a server in a network environment. Tools and strategies
for access and space management will be covered, as well as backup, restoration, and upgrade techniques.
C756 - Data Analytics - This course covers the most common tools, techniques, and procedures involved in data analytics. Students will review all
the disciplines involved with data analytics learned in previous courses and get a better understanding of how they all relate to one another.
C762 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Science - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned
during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of
your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C768 - Technical Communication - This course covers basic elements of technical communication, including professional written communication
proficiency; the ability to strategize approaches for differing audiences; and technical style, grammar, and syntax proficiency.
C769 - IT Capstone Written Project - The capstone project consists of a technical work proposal, the proposal’s implementation, and a post-
implementation report that describes the graduate’s experience in developing and implementing the capstone project. The capstone project should be
presented and approved by the program mentor in relation to the graduate’s technical emphasis.
C772 - Data Analytics Graduate Capstone - The Data Analytics Graduate Capstone course allows the student to demonstrate their application of the
academic and professional abilities developed as a graduate student. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from
several program domains into one project.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 164
C773 - User Interface Design - This course covers tools and techniques employed in user interface design including web and mobile applications.
Concepts of clarity, usability and detectability are included in this course as well as other design elements such as color schemes, typography, and
layout . Techniques like wireframing, usability testing, and SEO optimization are also covered. This course prepares students for the CIW User
Interface Designer certification.
C777 - Web Development Applications - This course prepares students for the CIW Advanced HTML5 and CSS3 Specialist certification exam. This
course builds upon a student's manual coding skills by teaching how to develop web documents and pages using the Web Development Trifecta:
HTML5 (Hypertext Markup Language version 5) and CSS3 (Cascading Style Sheets version 3) and JavaScript. Students will utilize the skills learned
in this course to create web documents and pages that easily adapt to display on both traditional and mobile devices. In addition, students will learn
techniques for code validation and testing, form creation, inline form field validation, and mobile design for browsers and apps, including Responsive
Web Design (RWD).
C779 - Web Development Foundations - This course prepares students for the CIW Site Development Associate certification. The course introduces
students to web design and development by presenting them with HTML5 and CSS, the foundational languages of the web, by reviewing media
strategies, and by using tools and techniques commonly employed in web development.
C783 - Project Management - Project Management is for students seeking the Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) credential. The
course is a thorough exploration of the inputs, tools, techniques, and outputs across the five process groups and ten knowledge areas identified in the
Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) Guide. The essential concepts and practical scenarios included enable students to build the
competencies required to successfully complete the CAPM certification exam. There is no prerequisite for this course.
C784 - Applied Healthcare Statistics - Applied Healthcare Probability and Statistics is designed to help you develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic mathematics, introductory algebra, and statistics and probability. These concepts include: basic arithmetic with fractions and signed
numbers; introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical data and probability are now
commonplace in the healthcare field. You need to be able to make informed decisions about which studies and results are valid, which are not, and
how those results affect your decisions. This course will give you background in what constitutes sound research design and how to appropriately
model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, you will be able to calculate simple probabilities, especially based on events which occur in the
healthcare profession. This course will prepare you for your studies at WGU, as well as in the healthcare profession.
C785 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application! Be sure to understand the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how
it is applied. By successfully completing this course, you will gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. You
will also begin to see the importance of this subject matter to health.
C787 - Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science - Nutritional ignorance or misunderstandings are at the root of the health problems that
most Americans face today. Nurses need to be armed with the most current information available about nutrition science, including how to understand
nutritional content of food; implications of exercise and activity on food consumption and weight management, and management of community or
population specific nutritional challenges. The Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science course should prepare nurses to provide support,
guidance, and teaching about incorporation of sound nutritional principles into daily life for health promotion. This course covers the following
concepts: nutrition to support wellness; healthy nutritional choices; nutrition and physical activity; nutrition through the lifecycle; safety and security of
food; and nutrition and global health environments.
C790 - Foundations in Nursing Informatics - This course addresses the integration of technology to improve and support nursing practice. It
provides nurses with a foundational understanding of nursing informatics theory, practice, and applications. Topics include the role of nursing in
informatics; use of computer technology for clinical documentation, communication, and workflows; problem identification; project implementation; and
best practices.
C791 - Advanced Information Management and the Application of Technology - In this course you will examine complementary roles of master’s
level-prepared nursing information technology professionals, including informaticists and quality officers. You will analyze current and emerging
technologies; data management; ethical legal and regulatory best-practice evidence; and bio-health informatics using decision-making support
systems at the point of care.
C792 - Data Modeling and Database Management Systems - This graduate course is designed to engage the student in planning, analyzing, and
designing a relational database management system (DBMS) for use by nurse administrators, clinicians, educators, and informaticists. This
experience will provide the knowledge needed to advocate for nursing informatics needs within the field of healthcare.
C795 - Cybersecurity Management II - Tactical - Cybersecurity Management II - Tactical provides students the opportunity to examine tactical
cybersecurity management, which is the practice of addressing near-term cybersecurity goals within an enterprise. The tactical management process
enables organizations to address unique cyber requirements throughout the organization. It deals with the people, processes, and technologies that
are in use, and it primarily centers on the current operations of the enterprise. A range of cybersecurity tactical management topics are introduced in
this course, including the tools, techniques, and concepts used to develop an effective cybersecurity program within organizations. The Cybersecurity
Management I - Strategic course is a prerequisite for this course.
C796 - Cybersecurity Graduate Capstone - The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance (MSCSIA) Capstone project allows
students to demonstrate their capability to establish a durable cybersecurity and information assurance program. The capstone project challenges
students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project that deals with a significant real-world cybersecurity problem.
This course aggregates content from earlier courses to help students prepare for the CISSP certification exam.
C797 - Data Science and Analytics - This course addresses the interdisciplinary and emerging field of data science in healthcare. Students will learn
to combine tools and techniques from statistics, computer science, data visualization, and the social sciences to solve problems using data. Topics
include data analysis, database management, inferential and descriptive statistics, statistical inference, and process improvement.
C798 - Informatics System Analysis and Design - In Informatics System Analysis and Design, a broad understanding of data systems is covered to
build upon the Foundations in Nursing Informatics course. The importance of effective interoperability, functionality, data access, and user satisfaction
are addressed. The student will be analyzing reports and integrating federal regulations, research principles, and principles of environmental health in
the construction of a real-world systems analysis and design project. This course will be directly applicable to healthcare settings as electronic records
management has become compulsory for healthcare providers. All of the information in this course will be directly tied to the delivery of quality patient
care and patient safety. Foundations in Nursing Informatics is recommended as a prerequisite.
C799 - Healthcare Ecosystems - Healthcare Ecosystems explores the history and state of healthcare organizations in an ever-changing
environment. This course covers how agencies influence healthcare delivery through legal, licensure, certification, and accreditation standards. The
course will also discuss how new technologies and trends keep healthcare delivery innovative and current.
C800 - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems introduces students to information technology as a discipline.
This course also exposes students to the various roles and functions of the health information manager to support the business of healthcare. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
C801 - Health Information Law and Regulations - Health Information Law and Regulations prepares students to manage health information in
compliance with legal guidelines and teaches how to respond to questions and challenges when legal issues occur. This course presents the types of
situations occurring in health information management that could result in ethical dilemmas and establishes a foundation for work based on legal and
ethical guidelines.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 165
C802 - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management applies theories from business,
IT, management, medicine, and consumer-centered healthcare skills. Students will learn to evaluate and analyze health information systems for
implementation in health information management. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C803 - Data Analytics and Information Governance - Data Analytics and Information Governance explores the structure, methods, and approaches
for using health information in the healthcare industry. By focusing on quality data collection, analytics, and industry regulations, students will examine
tools that ensure quality data collection as well as use data to improve quality of care. This course has no prerequisites.
C804 - Medical Terminology - Medical Terminology focuses on the basic components of medical terminology and how terminology is used when
discussing various body structures and systems. Proper use of medical terminology is critical for accurate and clear communication among medical
staff, health professionals, and patients. In addition to the systems of the body, this course will discuss immunity, infections, mental health, and cancer.
C805 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is an overview of the pathology and treatment of diseases in the human body and its systems. This
course will explain the processes in the body that result in the signs and symptoms of disease, as well as therapeutic procedures in managing or
curing the disease. The content draws on a knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand how diseases manifest themselves and how they
affect the body.
C806 - Introduction to Pharmacology - Introduction to Pharmacology provides information about drug development and approvals, pharmaceutical
classifications, metabolism, and the effect of drugs on body systems. The course will introduce advancements in pharmaceutical technology,
regulatory requirements within electronic health record systems, and the financial implications of pharmaceutical coding and billing. This course has no
prerequisites.
C807 - Healthcare Compliance - Healthcare Compliance examines the role of the coding professional within healthcare information management.
The course covers compliance plans, issues that arise with noncompliance, and management of internal and external audits.
C808 - Classification Systems - Classification Systems provides a comprehensive approach to learning about medical coding classification, coding
audits and quality standards. Students will be exposed to electronic health record systems and leadership principles as they relate to management of
ICD and CPT codes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C810 - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management introduces students to the concepts and
terminology used in health data and health information management. This course teaches students how to apply data management and governance
principles in the healthcare environment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C811 - Healthcare Financial Resource Management - Healthcare Financial Resource Management examines financial practices within healthcare
industries to promote effective management at department and organization levels. Focusing on financial processes associated with facility operations
in the healthcare field, this course will analyze the impact of strategic financial planning and regulatory control processes. This course has no
prerequisites.
C812 - Healthcare Reimbursement - Healthcare Reimbursement explores financial practices within the healthcare industry as they relate to
reimbursement policies. This course identifies how reimbursement systems impact the revenue cycle and a health information manager's role. This
course has no prerequisites.
C813 - Healthcare Statistics and Research - Healthcare Statistics and Research explores the use of statistical data to support process improvement
through health information research. Health information management (HIM) professionals use information systems to gather, analyze, and present
data in response to administrative and clinical needs. This course has no prerequisites.
C815 - Quality and Performance Management and Methods - Quality and Performance Management and Methods examines quality initiatives
within healthcare. Quality issues cover human resource management, employee performance and patient safety. This course focuses on quality
improvement initiatives and performance improvement with the health information management perspective.
C816 - Healthcare System Applications - Healthcare System Applications introduces students to information systems. This course includes
important topics related to management of information systems (MIS), such as system development and business continuity. The course also provides
an overview of management tools and issue tracking systems. This course has no prerequisites.
C818 - Health Information Management Capstone - Health Information Management Capstone Project is the culmination of the student's degree
program. It requires the demonstration of competencies through a deliverable of significant scope in the form of a research project. The capstone
project consists of a technical work product applicable to the field of health information management. Students should consider creating this final
product with the aim of expanding the body of knowledge within the profession. The topic of the Capstone must be presented to and approved by the
Capstone Mentor before starting the project.
C820 - Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare - The Professional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare course is
designed to help students prepare for success in the online environment at Western Governors University and beyond. Student success starts with the
social support and self-reflective awareness that will prepare students to weather the challenges of academic programs. In this course students will
participate in group activities and complete several individual assignments. The group activities are aimed at finding support and gaining insight from
other students. The assignments are intended to give the student an opportunity to reflect about where they are and where they would like to be. The
activities in each group meeting are designed to give students several tools they can use to achieve success.
This course is designed as a five-part intensive learning experience. Students will attend five group meetings during the term. At each meeting
students will engage in activities that help them understand their own educational journey and find support and inspiration in the journey of others.
C823 - Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience - Today’s rapidly changing healthcare delivery environment requires nurse
executives to effectively lead change to achieve organizational goals and improvements. Registered nurses need to hold an active nursing license and
have considerable clinical experience and education to become a nurse leader or manager. The course Nursing Leadership and Management Field
Experience (C823) provides graduate students with an opportunity to work collaboratively within the organization where he or she is employed to
address an identified nursing problem or need in current practices. The course then prompts students to work to promote a practice change, quality
improvement, or innovation that is based on the existing evidence and best practices.
C824 - Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone - The Nursing Leadership and Management capstone course provides the student with an
opportunity to engage in a project that is actionable, relevant, highly collaborative, and based on real world experience. The capstone involves
development of a scholarly project that addresses a problem, need, or gap in current practices. The capstone project provides an opportunity for the
graduate nursing student to demonstrate competency through design, application, and evaluation of a planned practice change, quality improvement,
or innovation that is based on the existing evidence and best practices.
C825 - Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science - Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science is an introduction to the nursing process as well as
fundamental concepts of nursing practice. This course includes a skills lab requiring physical presence (two on-site days) and completion of a nursing
skills assessment (one on-site day). Successful completion of this course in the pre-nursing term (BSPRN) is a requirement for consideration for
matriculation into the remaining terms (BSRN).
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 166
C826 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing will assist students in becoming
familiar with foundational theories and models of health promotion applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will develop an
understanding of how policies and resources influence the health of populations. Focus is concentrated on learning the importance of a community
assessment to improve or resolve a community health issue. Students will be introduced to the relationships between cultures and communities and
the steps necessary to create community collaboration with the goal to improve or resolve community health issues in a variety of settings. Students
will gain a greater understanding of health systems in the United States, global health issues, quality-of-life issues, cultural influences, community
collaboration, and emergency preparedness.
C828 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety of
skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a
collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C829 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary and Special Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the
wide variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you
will showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C830 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety
of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase
a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C832 - Chemistry with Lab - Chemistry with Lab for undergraduates provides students seeking initial teacher licensure in middle grades science or
secondary physics, biological science, or earth science with an introduction to the field of chemistry, the branch of science that studies the
composition, structure, properties, and behavior of matter. Designed for those not majoring in chemistry education, this course highlights how the
topics covered can be applied within various branches of science. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure
of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical
reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and
maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science for undergraduates is a prerequisite for this course.
C833 - Chemistry with Lab - Chemistry with Lab for graduates provides already licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
middle grades science or secondary physics, biological science, or earth science with an introduction to the field of chemistry, the branch of science
that studies the composition, structure, properties, and behavior of matter. Designed for those not majoring in chemistry education, this course
highlights how the topics covered can be applied within various branches of science. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the
electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules,
balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of
laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science for graduates is a prerequisite for this course.
C836 - Fundamentals of Information Security - This course lays the foundation for understanding terminology, principles, processes and best
practices of information security at local and global levels. It further provides an overview of basic security vulnerabilities and countermeasures for
protecting information assets through planning and administrative controls within an organization.
C837 - Managing Web Security - Almost all businesses and organizations require a web presence. The security needs, demands, and defenses for
these online environments differ from those of an isolated single computer or intranet. This course introduces best practices for preventing security
breaches by applying web security protocols, firewalls, and system configurations. This course prepares students for the Web Security Associate (CIW
WSA) certification exam.
C838 - Managing Cloud Security - Managing Cloud Security will prepare students to design solutions for cloud-based platforms and operations that
maintain data availability while protecting the confidentiality and integrity of information. Many of today’s companies and organizations have
outsourced data management, availability, and operational processes through cloud computing. Topics include security controls, disaster recovery
plans, and continuity management plans that address physical, logical, and human factors. It is recommended that the following courses be completed
before attempting this course: Networks and IT Applications.
C839 - Introduction to Cryptography - This course provides students with knowledge of cryptographic algorithms, protocols, and their uses in the
protection of information in various states. This course prepares students for the Certified Encryption Specialist (EC-Council ECES) certification exam.
C840 - Digital Forensics in Cybersecurity - Digital forensics, the science of investigating cybercrimes, seeks evidence that reveals who, what, when,
where, and how threats compromise information. This course examines the relationships between incident categories, evidence handling, and incident
management. Students identify consequences associated with cyber threats and security laws using a variety of tools to recognize and recover from
unauthorized, malicious activities.
C841 - Legal Issues in Information Security - Security information professionals have the role and responsibility for knowing and applying ethical
and legal principles and processes that define specific needs and demands to assure data integrity within an organization. This course addresses the
laws, regulations, authorities, and directives that inform the development of operational policies, best practices, and training to assure legal
compliance and to minimize internal and external threats. Students analyze legal constraints and liability concerns that threaten information security
within an organization and develop disaster recovery plans to assure business continuity.
C842 - Cyber Defense and Countermeasures - Traditional defenses such as firewalls, security protocols, and encryption sometimes fail to stop
attackers determined to access and compromise data. This course provides the fundamental skills to handle and respond to the computer security
incidents in an information system. The course addresses various underlying principles and techniques for detecting and responding to current and
emerging computer security threats. Students learn how to handle various types of incidents, risk assessment methodologies, and various laws and
policy related to incident handling. This course prepares students for the Certified Incident Handler (EC-Council ECIH) certification exam.
C843 - Managing Information Security - This course expands on fundamentals of information security by providing an in-depth analysis of the
relationship between an information security program and broader business goals and objectives. Students develop knowledge and experience in the
development and management of an information security program essential to ongoing education, career progression, and value delivery to
enterprises. Students apply best practices to develop an information security governance framework, analyze mitigation in the context of compliance
requirements, align security programs with security strategies and best practices, and recommend procedures for managing security strategies that
minimize risk to an organization.
C844 - Emerging Technologies in Cybersecurity - The continual evolution of technology means that cybersecurity professionals must be able to
analyze and evaluate new technologies in information security such as wireless, mobile, and internet technologies. Students review the adoption
process which prepares an organization for the risks and challenges of implementing new technologies. This course focuses on comparison of
evolving technologies to address the security requirements of an organization. Students learn underlying principles critical to the operation of secure
networks and adoption of new technologies.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 167
C845 - Information Systems Security - IT security professionals must be prepared for the operational demands and responsibilities of security
practitioners, including authentication, security testing, intrusion detection and prevention, incident response and recovery, attacks and
countermeasures, cryptography, and malicious code countermeasures. This course provides a comprehensive, up-to-date global body of knowledge
that ensures students have the right information security knowledge and skills to be successful in IT operational roles to mitigate security concerns and
guard against the impact of malicious activity. Students demonstrate how to manage and restrict access control systems; administer policies,
procedures, and guidelines that are ethical and compliant with laws and regulations; implement risk management and incident handling processes;
execute cryptographic systems to protect data; manage network security; and analyze common attack vectors and countermeasures to assure
information integrity and confidentiality in various systems. This course prepares students for the Systems Security Certified Practitioner (ISC2 SSCP)
certification exam.
C846 - Business of IT - Applications - Business of IT – Applications examines Information Technology Infrastructure Library ( ITIL®) terminology,
structure, policies, and concepts. Focusing on the management of Information Technology (IT) infrastructure, development, and operations, students
will explore the core principles of ITIL practices for service management to prepare them for careers as IT professionals, business managers, and
business process owners. This course has no prerequisites.
C847 - Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners - Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners prepares
candidates to make decisions based on the history of inclusion and to develop practical strategies for differentiating instruction, in accordance with
legal expectations, to meet the needs of a diverse learner population while creating a safe, inclusive, and culturally responsive learning space. Diverse
populations include learners with disabilities, gifted and talented learners, culturally diverse learners, and English language learners. Candidates will
learn when to employ assistive technologies to meet student needs, and they will begin to develop their skills for partnering with parents and
advocating for students. Candidates will complete ten hours of video-based classroom observations focused on the needs of diverse and exceptional
learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C848 - Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners - Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners prepares
candidates to make decisions based on the history of inclusion and to develop practical strategies for differentiating instruction, in accordance with
legal expectations, to meet the needs of a diverse learner population while creating a safe, inclusive, and culturally responsive learning space. Diverse
populations include learners with disabilities, gifted and talented learners, culturally diverse learners, and English language learners. Candidates will
learn when to employ assistive technologies to meet student needs, and they will begin to develop their skills for partnering with parents and
advocating for students. Candidates will complete ten hours of video-based classroom observations focused on the needs of diverse and exceptional
learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C849 - Cloud Foundations - More and more companies are shifting to a cloud computing model of doing business. The Cloud Foundations course
focuses on the real-world issues and practical solutions of cloud computing in business and IT. Competency in this course will be demonstrated by
the successful completion of the CompTIA Cloud Essentials certification exam.
C850 - Emerging Technologies - The Emerging Technology course examines emerging technologies, identifies the benefits and drawbacks of
technology adoption, and provides students with a process to evaluate technologies. The course will examine three technologies that may have an
impact on Information Technology services in the coming years.
C851 - Linux Foundations - Linux Foundations is an introduction to Linux as an operating system as well as an introduction to open source concepts
and the basics of the Linux command line. Expert content, a Linux virtual machine, and step-by-step labs give you hands-on access to practice Linux
command line concepts. Linux is widely used in different industries for all kinds of functions including web servers, firewalls, and graphic design, and it
provides robust functionality and a stable, secure environment that is not often found in any other client operating system.
C853 - Teacher Performance Assessment in English - The Teacher Performance Assessment serves as the final, culminating project in your
degree program. It is a formal, scholarly piece of work. You are required to design and develop a two-week-long (minimum), standards-based
curriculum unit. You will then implement (i.e., teach) the unit in your classroom and gather data as to its effectiveness.
C854 - Nursing Informatics Field Experience - Nursing Informatics Field Experience requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences in
an approved healthcare setting, working with an approved preceptor while engaging in authentic activities relevant to the role of an informatics nurse.
To help students develop competency in this area, this course gives students opportunities to apply methods and solutions to support clinical
decisions. They will be prepared to improve health outcomes by analyzing an existing health information system to determine the need for a system
optimization that will improve an organization’s ability to measure and report Triple Aim objectives. Students should complete the core nursing
informatics courses (all program courses, excluding the capstone course) before taking this course.
C855 - Nursing Informatics Capstone - Nursing Informatics Capstone requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences (CPE) and finalize
their system optimization proposal paper, which addresses the Institute of Health’s Triple Aim initiative. During this course, students will plan the final
phase of their system development life cycle (SDLC), which consists of proposing the processes, methods, and tasks for monitoring, maintaining,
supporting, and evaluating their system optimization. The knowledge and skills that students acquire during the CPE in this course will prepare them to
complete their system optimization proposal paper. This is a culminating course that provides students an opportunity to demonstrate the
competencies acquired during this program. Students should complete the core nursing informatics courses and the Nursing Informatics Field
Experience course before taking this course.
C856 - User Experience Design - User Experience Design explores multiple tools and techniques used in user experience design. Students are
presented with an in-depth view of activities involved in the design of user experience and have the opportunity to create several deliverables including
persona profiles, information architectures, and prototypes of different levels of fidelity. In addition, the course also covers usability testing and the
evaluation of quantitative and qualitative data derived from these and other experiments.
C857 - Software Quality Assurance - Software Quality Assurance applies a QA focus to every phase of the software development life cycle. This
course investigates best practices for quality analysis, quality planning, and testing strategies as they pertain to the everyday practice of software
development. Students will come to understand how their work fits into the bigger picture: how QA, testing, and code-writing practices interact within
specific process models; the potential impact of new code on existing code or on other applications; the importance of usability and the influence users
have on the ultimate success of an application. Students will explore test plans, test cases, unit tests, integration tests, regression tests, usability tests,
and test and review tools.
C859 - Introduction to Programming in Python - Introduction to Programming in Python provides the fundamentals of the Python language and its
features to control program flow and to manipulate data sets. This course teaches how to develop Python scripts that extract and manipulate data from
unstructured data sources. Python libraries including acquisition and configuration are also covered. Scripting and Programming Foundations and
Web Development Foundations are prerequisites to this course.
C867 - Scripting and Programming - Applications - Scripting and Programming - Applications for undergraduates explores the various aspects of
the C++ programming language by examining its syntax, the development environment, and tools and techniques to solve some real-world problems.
C868 - Software Development Capstone - The capstone assessment challenges students to demonstrate mastery of all the BSITSW program
outcomes. Students will develop a software application to solve a problem of their choice constrained only by the technology requirements provided in
the assessment DRF.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 168
C870 - Human Anatomy and Physiology - This course examines the structures and functions of the human body and covers anatomical
terminology, cells and tissues, and organ systems. Students will use a dissection lab to study the healthy state of the organ systems of the human
body, including the digestive, skeletal, sensory, respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine, and
renal systems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C871 - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment contains a
comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting
of seven components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of
student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C873 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety
of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase
a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C874 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance
Assessment contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct
evidence of the candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect
on the learning process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional
unit consisting of seven components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision
making, 6) analysis of student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C875 - Human Anatomy and Physiology - This course examines the structures and functions of the human body and covers anatomical
terminology, cells and tissues, and organ systems. Students will use a dissection lab to study the healthy state of the organ systems of the human
body, including the digestive, skeletal, sensory, respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine, and
renal systems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C876 - Conceptual Physics - Conceptual Physics provides a broad, conceptual overview of the main principles of physics, including mechanics,
thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and electricity and magnetism. Problem-solving activities and laboratory experiments provide
students with opportunities to apply these main principles, creating a strong foundation for future studies in physics. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
C877 - Mathematical Modeling and Applications - Mathematical Modeling and Applications applies mathematics, such as differential equations,
discrete structures, and statistics to formulate models and solve real-world problems. This course emphasizes improving students’ critical thinking to
help them understand the process and application of mathematical modeling. Probability and Statistics II and Calculus II are prerequisites.
C878 - Mathematical Modeling and Applications - Mathematical Modeling and Applications applies mathematics, such as differential equations,
discrete structures, and statistics to formulate models and solve real-world problems. This course emphasizes improving students’ critical thinking to
help them understand the process and application of mathematical modeling. Probability and Statistics II and Calculus II are prerequisites.
C879 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of algebra. Secondary teachers should have an understanding of the following: algebra as an extension of number, operation, and
quantity; various ideas of equivalence as it pertains to algebraic structures; patterns of change as covariation between quantities; connections
between representations (tables, graphs, equations, geometric models, context); and the historical development of content and perspectives from
diverse cultures. In particular, the focus should be on deeper understanding of rational numbers, ratios and proportions, meaning and use of variables,
functions (e.g., exponential, logarithmic, polynomials, rational, quadratic), and inverses. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C880 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of algebra. Secondary teachers should have an understanding of the following: algebra as an extension of number, operation, and
quantity; various ideas of equivalence as it pertains to algebraic structures; patterns of change as covariation between quantities; connections
between representations (tables, graphs, equations, geometric models, context); and the historical development of content and perspectives from
diverse cultures. In particular, the focus should be on deeper understanding of rational numbers, ratios and proportions, meaning and use of variables,
functions (e.g., exponential, logarithmic, polynomials, rational, quadratic), and inverses. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C881 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of geometry. Secondary teachers in this course will develop a deep understanding of constructions and transformations,
congruence and similarity, analytic geometry, solid geometry, conics, trigonometry, and the historical development of content. Calculus I and College
Geometry are prerequisites for this course.Calculus I and College Geometry are prerequisites for this course.
C882 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of geometry. Secondary teachers in this course will develop a deep understanding of constructions and transformations,
congruence and similarity, analytic geometry, solid geometry, conics, trigonometry, and the historical development of content. Calculus I is a
prerequisite for this course.
C883 - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores
important conceptual underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional
practices to support and assess the learning of statistics and probability. Secondary teachers should have a deep understanding of summarizing and
representing data, study design and sampling, probability, testing claims and drawing conclusions, and the historical development of content and
perspectives from diverse cultures. Calculus I and Probability and Statistics I and II are prerequisites for this course.
C884 - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores
important conceptual underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional
practices to support and assess the learning of statistics and probability. Secondary teachers should have a deep understanding of summarizing and
representing data, study design and sampling, probability, testing claims and drawing conclusions, and the historical development of content and
perspectives from diverse cultures. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C885 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus examines rigorous reconsideration and proofs involving calculus. Topics include real-number
systems, sequences, limits, continuity, differentiation, and integration. This course emphasizes students’ ability to apply critical thinking to concepts to
analyze the connections between definitions and properties. Calculus III and Linear Algebra are prerequisites.
C886 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus examines rigorous reconsideration and proofs involving calculus. Topics include real-number
systems, sequences, limits, continuity, differentiation, and integration. This course emphasizes students’ ability to apply critical thinking to concepts to
analyze the connections between definitions and properties. Calculus III and Linear Algebra are prerequisites.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 169
C887 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance
Assessment contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct
evidence of the candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect
on the learning process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional
unit consisting of seven components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making,
6) analysis of student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C888 - Molecular and Cellular Biology - Molecular and Cellular Biology provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in
secondary science education with an introduction to the area of molecular and cellular biology. This course examines the cell as an organism,
emphasizing molecular basis of cell structure and functions of biological macromolecules, subcellular organelles, intracellular transport, cell division,
and biological reactions. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C889 - Molecular and Cellular Biology - Molecular and Cellular Biology provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or
to earn their MA degree in secondary science education with an introduction to the area of molecular and cellular biology. This course examines the
cell as an organism emphasizing molecular basis of cell structure and functions of biological macromolecules, subcellular organelles, intracellular
transport, cell division, and biological reactions. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C890 - Ecology and Environmental Science - Ecology and Environmental Science is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking
initial licensure or endorsement in secondary or middle grade science education. The course explores the relationships between organisms and their
environment, including population ecology, communities, adaptations, distributions, interactions, and the environmental factors controlling these
relationships. This course has no prerequisites.
C891 - Ecology and Environmental Science - Ecology and Environmental Science is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial
licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. The course explores the relationships
between organisms and their environment, including population ecology, communities, adaptations, distributions, interactions, and the environmental
factors controlling these relationships. This course has no prerequisites.
C892 - Geology II: Earth Systems - Geology II: Earth Systems provides undergraduate students seeking licensure or endorsement in secondary
science education with an examination of the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere, and the dynamic equilibrium of these systems
over geologic time. This course also examines the history of Earth and its life-forms, with an emphasis in meteorology. A prerequisite for this course is
Geology I: Physical.
C893 - Geology II: Earth Systems - Geology II: Earth Systems provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA
degree in secondary science education with an examination of the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere, and the dynamic equilibrium
of these systems over geologic time. This course also examines the history of Earth and its life-forms, with an emphasis in meteorology. A prerequisite
for this course is Geology I: Physical.
C894 - Astronomy - Astronomy provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary or middle grade science
education with essential knowledge of astronomy and explores Western history and basic physics of astronomy; phases of the moon and seasons;
composition and properties of solar system bodies; stellar evolution and remnants; properties and scale of objects and distances within the universe;
and introductory cosmology. A prerequisite for this course is General Physics.
C895 - Astronomy - Astronomy provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or
middle grade science education with essential knowledge of astronomy and explores Western history and basic physics of astronomy; phases of the
moon and seasons; composition and properties of solar system bodies; stellar evolution and remnants; properties and scale of objects and distances
within the universe; and introductory cosmology. A prerequisite for this course is General Physics.
C897 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful secondary mathematics teachers. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, Pre-
Calculus, Calculus I, and Calculus II. Linear Algebra, and Calculus III are recommended.
C898 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary Earth Science teachers is
expected to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of Earth and Space Sciences, tectonics and internal Earth processes,
Earth materials and surface processes, history of the Earth and its Life-Forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphhere, and astronomy.
C900 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student’s conceptual understanding of a broad range of biology
topics. High school biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. For example, when studying hormones created by
endocrine glands traveling through the circulatory system to maintain homeostasis, a student is connecting many biology topics. This course starts
with macromolecules that make up cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist.
Connections are then made between genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ
systems and their role in maintaining homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and how humans affect the environment.
C901 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include mechanics, electricity and magnetism, optics and waves, heat and thermodynamics, modern
physics, atomic and nuclear structure, the history and nature of science, science technology, and social perspectives.
C902 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle-level science teacher is expected to
know and understand. Topics include scientific methodologies, history of science, basic science principles, physical sciences, life sciences, Earth and
space sciences, and the role of science and technology and their impact on society.
C903 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Middle School Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine
and integrate the mathematics content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful middle school mathematics teachers. A high level of
mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College
Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and Pre-Calculus.
C904 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Science - The Teacher Performance Assessment in Science is culmination of the wide variety of skills
learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a
collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C907 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological
research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment.
Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment
to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C908 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and Earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical and everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
C909 - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions provides candidates with an in-depth look
at best practices for developing reading and writing skills. Course content examines the stages of literacy development, the balanced literacy
approach, differentiation, technology integration, literacy-assessment, and the comprehensive Response to Intervention (RTI) model used to identify
and address the needs of learners who struggle with reading comprehension. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 170
C910 - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions provides students seeking initial teacher
licensure in elementary education with an in-depth look at best practices for developing the reading and writing skills of all students. Course content
examines the stages of literacy development, the balanced literacy approach, differentiation, technology integration, literacy-assessment, and the
comprehensive Response to Intervention (RTI) model used to identify and address the needs of learners who struggle with reading comprehension.
This course has no prerequisites.
C912 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include: real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C913 - Psychology for Educators - This course prepares candidates to meet the expectations of society and prepares future educators to support
classroom practice with research-validated concepts. The course helps future educators to create a framework for refining teaching skills that are
focused on the learner, through engaged inquiry of integrating theory, critical issues in psychology, classroom applications with diverse populations,
assessment, educational technology, and reflective teaching. Students in this course will complete ten hours of video-based classroom observations
related to issues in educational psychology and learner development.
C914 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety
of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase
a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C915 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - Chemistry: Content Knowledge provides advanced instruction in the main areas of chemistry for which
secondary chemistry teachers are expected to demonstrate competency. Topics include matter and energy, thermochemistry, structure, bonding,
reactivity, biochemistry and organic chemistry, solutions, nature of science, technology and social perspectives, mathematics, and laboratory
procedures.
C916 - Scripting and Automation - Scripting and Automation is the foundation for automating tasks in operating systems. Students will learn how to
create PowerShell scripts that take tedious and repetitious tasks and turn them into programs that will save time. Students will learn PowerShell, an
automation and configuration management tool based on a command-line shell and .NET Framework.
C917 - Network Design Foundations - Network Design Foundations explores enterprise environments that require networks designed for
performance, availability, and scalability with the flexibility to meet rapidly evolving demands. Skilled IT professionals who possess up-to-date,
fundamental network design skills are needed in order to meet these challenges head-on. C246: Fundamentals of Interconnecting Network Devices or
Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) certification is a prerequisite for this course.
C918 - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators examines the multidimensional roles of
a contemporary academic nurse educator. This course explores the roles and responsibilities of the nurse educator as a teacher, leader, change
agent, and curriculum innovator. Students will also examine the importance of personal and professional development by developing strategies that
promote academic integrity, cultural sensitivity, social justice, and ethical/legal values in diverse environments. The course emphasizes the
responsibility of nurse educators to utilize communication, collaboration, and leadership in mitigating challenges in academic nursing education.
C919 - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning explores how the
nurse educator will incorporate authentic experiences into the creation of course plans that facilitate scholarly inquiry, collaboration, and knowledge
acquisition in varied educational environments. Emphasis is placed on innovative, transformational, and experiential teaching and learning strategies
to facilitate student development of professional context-based nursing principles, knowledge, skills, and behavior. Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators
in Diverse Environments is a prerequisite to this course.
C920 - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing Education - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in
Nursing Education analyzes the concepts of creating curriculum based on national nursing accreditation standards and instructional design best
practices. Nurse educator students will create course content that supports learning in diverse, real-world environments where nurse educators
facilitate learning. Instructional design strategies for delivering course content will reflect the mission of academic institution programs, contemporary
trends in nursing education, and the needs of key stakeholders in nursing education and practice. Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered
Learning is a prerequisite to this course.
C921 - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student Learning - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student
Learning addresses the academic nurse educator’s role in the design, development, implementation, and evaluation of student achievement outcomes
in nursing education programs. This course requires students to integrate best practices from nursing theory and theories of learning to assess student
learning in diverse educational settings. Topics include validity, reliability, and practicality of assessments, interpreting item difficulty and discrimination
test results, and analyzing student achievement and learning outcomes data. This course has no prerequisites.
C922 - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing Education - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing
Education analyzes the emerging trends, technologies, and challenges that academic nurse educators encounter when facilitating learning in diverse
healthcare settings. Students will focus on the necessity of interprofessional collaboration, and the barriers and facilitators to overcoming the
challenges associated with teaching and learning in nursing. Topics include the impact of emerging technology, challenges in nursing practice, and the
role of the academic nurse educator as a scholar and a nursing education policy advocate. This course has no prerequisites.
C923 - Cloud Applications - Cloud Applications teaches students to implement and maintain cloud technologies and enables them to jump into a
rapidly growing market. As more businesses shift their IT operations to cloud platforms, skills in cloud computing and virtualization have become a
frequently required qualification for IT professionals. This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CV0-002 CompTIA Cloud+.
While it is strongly recommended that students complete Cloud Foundations (C849) prior to beginning this course, there are no prerequisites.
C924 - Cloud Deployment and Operations - Cloud Deployment and Operations provides students with the technical skills in deployment,
management, and operations of cloud services. This course allows students to examine stability and scalability, backup and recovery processes, and
deployment best practices. Provisioning of cloud resources, monitoring of cloud resources, and managing connectivity are also examined.
Competency in this course is demonstrated by successfully completing the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate
certification exam. The following courses are prerequisites: Cloud Applications (C923).
C925 - Earth: Inside and Out - Earth: Inside and Out explores the ways in which our dynamic planet evolved, and the processes and systems that
continue to shape it. Though the geologic record is incredibly ancient, it has only been studied intensely since the end of the nineteenth century. Since
then, research in fields such as geologic time, plate tectonics, climate change, exploration of the deep sea floor, and the inner earth have vastly
increased our understanding of geological processes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C926 - Earth: Inside and Out - Earth: Inside and Out explores the ways in which our dynamic planet evolved, and the processes and systems that
continue to shape it. Though the geologic record is incredibly ancient, it has only been studied intensely since the end of the nineteenth century. Since
then, research in fields such as geologic time, plate tectonics, climate change, exploration of the deep sea floor, and the inner earth have vastly
increased our understanding of geological processes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C927 - Managing Technology Operations and Innovation - Managing Technical Operations and Innovations explores the importance of innovation
in the processes of operations management and business competitiveness. From the formulation of tactical operations plans from strategic objectives,
IT executives need to create partnerships to drive innovation within an organization. This course provides students with the practical knowledge and
understanding of operations management concepts, business models, methods, tools, applications and best practices used by successful
organizations to improve their operations. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 171
C928 - Financial Management for IT Professionals - Financial Management for IT Professionals develops learners’ skills in financial management,
budgeting, and procurement. This course teaches how to leverage financial know-how to improve workplace decision-making. This course also
provides learners with the knowledge and skills necessary to spend money on the right projects and right equipment, while aligning operating budgets
with strategic initiatives. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C929 - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy examines the practice of sourcing
and developing global IT projects from a management perspective. In today’s organizations, leaders look for efficient and effective ways to deliver
goods and services. This course will allow students to explore the strategic, operational, tactical, and security-related impacts to the organization of
sourcing and supporting a global IT project. Students will cultivate a deep understanding of the documents, skills, and stakeholders needed for any
given project and develop the ability to leverage these elements to achieve success. This course will also explore the ethical, cultural, and regulatory
considerations surrounding sourcing and managing IT projects in a global space. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C930 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C931 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C932 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document at least 75 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will
be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a
completed resume.
C933 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C934 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education provides
students the opportunity to observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence
necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their
performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a
cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C935 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C936 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C937 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom
for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or
WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C938 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom
for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or
WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C939 - Data Visualization - Data Visualization covers the application of design principles, human perception, color theory, and effective storytelling in
the context of data visualization. It addresses presenting data to others, and advancing technology with visualization tools enabling data scientists to
share their findings and support organizational decision-making processes. Additionally, this course focuses on how to visually encode and present
data to an audience.
C940 - Science Methods—Secondary Biology - Science Methods—Secondary Biology provides an introduction to teaching methods specific to
science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary biology. Course content focuses on the design and teaching
of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core
ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance,
and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is Instructional Planning and
Presentation.
C941 - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry provides an introduction to teaching methods specific
to science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary chemistry. Course content focuses on the design and
teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and
disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to
evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe
laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is
Instructional Planning and Presentation.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 172
C942 - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science provides an introduction to teaching methods
specific to science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary earth science. Course content focuses on the
design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts,
and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to
evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe
laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is
Instructional Planning and Presentation.
C943 - Science Methods—Secondary Physics - Science Methods—Secondary Physics provides an introduction to teaching methods specific to
science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary physics. Course content focuses on the design and teaching
of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core
ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance,
and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is Instructional Planning and
Presentation.
C945 - Preclinical Experiences in English - Preclinical Experiences in English provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a wide
range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will reflect on
and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom for the
observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU
required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C946 - Nursing Education Field Experience - The Nursing Education Field Experience provides the academic nurse educator student an
opportunity to work collaboratively with academic mentors and interprofessional stakeholders to analyze the need-gap for a curriculum change,
innovation, or improvement. Based on the identified need-gap, the graduate student will design and develop a course that reflects evidence-based
instructional design and assessment principles and practices. This course prepares students for the role of an Academic Nurse Educator, as an agent
for change and quality improvement in nursing education.
C947 - Nursing Education Capstone - The Nursing Education Capstone course provides the Academic Nurse Educator student an opportunity to
apply previous course work towards the completion of an evidence-based curriculum proposal project. During this course students will build on
previous work during their Nursing Education Field Experience course by planning the implementation and evaluation phases of their proposed
curriculum change, innovation or improvement. The capstone proposal project represents a synthesis of competencies across the Masters Science of
Nursing—Nursing Education degree program, which prepares them to lead, manage, and transform nursing education in diverse and complex
academic settings.
C948 - Technical Communication - Technical Communication examines communication types and strategies that information technology executives
will use to communicate effectively within an organization. As leaders, IT executives frequently contribute to business goals by designing and
communicating specialized information in a variety of media to customers, clients, and other departments. In this course, students learn to
communicate accurately, effectively, and ethically to a variety of audiences. Students choose, design, and deliver the communication product and
assess the effectiveness to improve future communication. This course has no prerequisites.
C949 - Data Structures and Algorithms I - Data Structures and Algorithms I covers the fundamentals of dynamic data structures, such as bags, lists,
stacks, queues, trees, hash tables, and their associated algorithms. With Python software as the basis, the course discusses object-oriented design
and abstract data types as a design paradigm. The course emphasizes problem solving and techniques for designing efficient, maintainable software
applications. Students will implement simple applications using the techniques learned. This course has one prerequisite: Software 1.
C950 - Data Structures and Algorithms II - Data Structures and Algorithms II explores the analysis and implementation of high-performance data
structures and supporting algorithms, including graphs, hashing, self-adjusting data structures, set representations, and dynamic programming. The
course also introduces students to NP-complete problems. The course discusses how to use Python techniques to implement software solutions for
problems of memory management and data compression. This course has two prerequisites: Data Structures and Algorithms I and Discrete Math II.
C951 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence explores the foundational principles and practices of artificial
intelligence (AI), machine learning, and robotics. The course prepares students to analyze relationships, build agents, and create models relevant to AI
problems. The prerequisites for this course are Introduction to Probability and Statistics as well as Data Structures and Algorithms II.
C952 - Computer Architecture - Computer Architecture introduces students to concepts and characteristics of organization and architecture applied
to modern computer systems, including performance, processor, memory, Input/Output, and multiprocessors to optimize system design, performance,
and efficiency.
C954 - Information Technology Management - IT Management introduces the key topics and skills needed to lead next-generation technology
organizations. This course explores how common applications and innovation drive value and business needs. Ethical and regulatory compliance
issues are discussed, including current practices for risk management, disaster recovery, and cybersecurity. Students will also analyze the key
leadership skills and traits necessary to lead responsive, competitive, and innovative organizations. This course has no prerequisites.
C955 - Applied Probability and Statistics - Applied Probability and Statistics is designed to help students develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic statistics including: introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical
data and probability are often used in everyday life, science, business, information technology, and educational settings to make informed decisions
about the validity of studies and the effect of data on decisions. This course discusses what constitutes sound research design and how to
appropriately model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, the content covers simple probability calculations, based on events that occur in
the business and IT industries. No prerequisites are required for this course.
C957 - Applied Algebra - Applied Algebra is designed to help you develop competence in working with functions, the algebra of functions, and using
some applied properties of functions. You will start learning about how we can apply different kinds of functions to relevant, real-life examples. From
there, the algebra of several families of functions will be explored, including linear, polynomial, exponential, and logistic functions. You will also learn
about relevant, applicable mathematical properties of each family of functions, including rate of change, concavity, maximizing/minimizing, and
asymptotes. These properties will be used to solve problems related to your major and make sense of everyday living problems. Students should
complete Applied Probability and Statistics or its equivalent prior to engaging in Applied Algebra.
C958 - Calculus I - Calculus students apply theoretical concepts of calculus to real-world situations, demonstrating a developing mathematical
mindset. This course focuses on limits, derivatives, integrals, and differential equations; it also prepares students for Discrete Mathematics.
Prerequisites may include an entrance exam that assesses pre-calculus skills, or readiness; alternatively, completion of pre-calculus within the past 3
– 5 years.
C959 - Discrete Mathematics I - Discrete Mathematics 1 is designed to help students develop competence in the use of abstract discrete structures
fundamental to computer science. In particular, this course will introduce students to logic and proofs, Boolean algebra and functions, set theory, finite
and infinite sequences and series, and relations, graphs and trees. There is an emphasis on applications in computer science. Calculus is a
prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 173
C960 - Discrete Mathematics II - Discrete Mathematics II addresses abstract discrete computational methods used in computer science. In particular,
this class introduces searching and sorting algorithms, big-O estimates, number theory and cryptography, recursion and induction, counting and
advanced counting techniques, discrete probability, and modeling computation. There is also an emphasis on applications in computer science.
Discrete Mathematics I is a prerequisite for this course.
C961 - Ethics in Technology - Ethics in Technology examines the ethical considerations of technology in each of four categories: privacy, accuracy,
property, and access. The course presents a range of technologies and issues that challenge technologists in the field of information ethics. Students
are introduced to a decision-making process as informed by ethical frameworks that outline key ethical considerations within the technologies
presented. Students will study specific cases to help inform their professional responsibilities in how to navigate the important controversies in topics
such as surveillance, social media, hacking, data manipulation, plagiarism and piracy, artificial intelligence, responsible innovation, and the digital
divide. This course has no prerequisites.
C962 - Current and Emerging Technology - Current and Emerging Technology explores organizational leadership trends, practices, processes, and
technology in contemporary technology-intensive organizations. IT executives need to continually stay informed of technological trends to determine
their relevance and implementation within an organization. This course requires students to read and evaluate academic literature pertaining to
emerging IT topics. This course has no prerequisites.
C963 - American Politics and the US Constitution - American Politics and the US Constitution examines the evolution of representative government
in the United States and the changing interpretations of the civil rights and civil liberties protected by the Constitution. This course will give students an
understanding of the powers of the branches of the federal government, the continual tensions inherent in a federal system, the shifting relationship
between state and federal governments, and interactions between elected officials and the ever-changing electorate. This course will focus on such
topics as the role of a free press in a democracy, the impact of changing demographics on American politics, and the debates over and expansion of
civil rights. Upon completion of the course, students should be able to explain the basic functions of the federal government, describe the forces that
shape American policy and politics, and be better prepared to participate in America’s civic institutions. This course has no prerequisite.
C964 - Computer Science Capstone - The Computer Science Capstone course allows the student to demonstrate their application of the academic
and professional abilities developed during the BSCS program. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program
domains into one project.
C965 - Teaching in the Middle School - Teaching in the Middle School examines the guiding principles and best teaching practices for educating
middle school students. The course explores the history of the middle school, the philosophy, theory, and rationale behind middle school organization;
and the differences between elementary, middle, and secondary schools. The course also examines the unique needs of middle school students and
teaching methods used to meet the needs of these learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C966 - Teaching in the Middle School - Teaching in the Middle School examines the guiding principles and best teaching practices for educating
middle school students. The course explores the history of the middle school, the philosophy, theory, and rationale behind middle school organization;
and the differences between elementary, middle, and secondary schools. The course also examines the unique needs of middle school students and
teaching methods used to meet the needs of these learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C968 - Software I – C# - Software I builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for C# application development.
You will learn about and put into action: class design, exception handling, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop software that
meets business requirements. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming. Scripting and Programming: Foundations
and Scripting and Programming: Applications are prerequisites for this course.
C969 - Software II – Advanced C# - Software II - Advanced C# refines object-oriented programming expertise and builds database and file server
application development skills. You will learn about and put into action lambda expressions, collections, and input/output to develop software with C#
that meets business requirements. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the C# language. The prerequisite
for this course is Software I - C#.
C970 - Children’s Literature - This course is an introduction to and exploration of children's literature. Students will consider and analyze children's
literature as a lens through which to view the world. Students will experience multiple genres, historical perspectives, cultural representations, and
current applications in the field of children's literature. While it is not required, it is recommended that candidates take NHC1 and either C368 or C133
prior to this course.
C971 - Mobile Application Development Using C# - Mobile Application Development Using C# introduces students to programming for mobile
devices. Building on students’ previous knowledge of programming in C#, this course investigates Xamarin.Forms and how it can be used to build a
mobile application. This course explores a broad range of topics, including mobile user interface design and development; building applications that
adapt to different mobile devices and platforms; managing data using a local database; and consuming REST-based web services. There are several
prerequisites for this course: Software I and II, and UI Design.
C972 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use dynamic technology to explore geometry, to use
axiomatic reasoning to prove statements about geometry, and to apply geometric models to solve real-life problems. Topics include axiomatic
systems, analytic proofs, coordinate geometry, plane and solid Euclidean geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, constructions, transformations,
deductive reasoning, and dynamic technology. College Algebra as well as Trigonometry and Precalculus are prerequisites.
C973 - Principles of Psychology, Child and Adolescent Development for Educators - This course prepares candidates to support classroom
practices with research-validated concepts in the areas of educational psychology and child/adolescent development. Candidates will be introduced to
learning theories that equip them with knowledge and skills necessary to support the diverse populations of students with whom they will interact.
Theories of human development, spanning early childhood through adolescence, also will be addressed, and students completing this course will be
able to explain and analyze the guiding perspectives on physical, cognitive, and social development. Appropriate instructional and assessment
strategies to support student learning and development also will be addressed. Students will complete ten hours of video-based classroom
observations related to issues in educational psychology and learner development.
C974 - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science provides an introduction to
teaching methods specific to science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in Middle School Science. Course content
focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices,
crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work
within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and
certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A
prerequisite for this course is Instructional Planning and Presentation.
C975 - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science focuses on teaching methods
specific to science for graduate students seeking an endorsement in middle school science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of
standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core
ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance,
and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 174
C976 - Science Methods—Secondary Biology - Science Methods—Secondary Biology focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary biology. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons
using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate
integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate
science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for
science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C977 - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary chemistry. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons
using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate
integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate
science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for
science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C978 - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science focuses on teaching methods specific to
science for graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary earth science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-
based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the
appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan
appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C979 - Science Methods—Secondary Physics - Science Methods—Secondary Physics focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary physics. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons
using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate
integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate
science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for
science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C980 - Innovative Solutions in Health Leadership - Innovative Solutions in Health Leadership provides an opportunity to explore healthcare
innovations through comparison research, application of disruptive leadership concepts, and advanced technology applications. Students will apply
strategic innovation concepts to improve critical patient dissatisfiers in a healthcare setting. This course has no prerequisites.
C981 - Collaborative Leadership - Collaborative Leadership provides an opportunity to apply collaborative leadership skills to better serve diverse
communities. Students will develop a process innovation with community leaders in a diverse population emphasizing a cultural competence. This
course has no prerequisites.
C982 - Healthcare Models and Systems - Healthcare Models and Systems provides an opportunity to analyze the evolution of healthcare models
and systems. Students will apply leadership strategies to manage organizational changes and community affiliations. This course has no
prerequisites.
C983 - Quality Improvement in Healthcare - Quality Improvement in Healthcare provides an opportunity to apply quality improvement principles and
strategies in a high-volume Level 1 trauma center. Students will apply disruptive leadership strategies to implement quality-improvement procedures in
a fast-paced healthcare environment. This course has no prerequisites.
C984 - Healthcare Financial Management - Healthcare Financial Management provides an opportunity to apply strategic change management
principles through the application of fiscal management and data analysis in a healthcare environment. The student will examine strategies to increase
value, sustainability, and productivity in a patient-centric environment. This course has no prerequisites.
C985 - Analytical Methods of Health Leaders - Analytical Methods of Health Leaders provides an opportunity to explore the use of predictive
analysis and forecasting techniques to develop evidence-based decision making. Students will apply quality research and analytical analysis to inform
decisions in a health management environment. This course has no prerequisites.
C986 - Enterprise Risk Management - Enterprise Risk Management provides an opportunity to examine risk exposure, and response, and risk
mitigation within an integrated care delivery model. Students will apply practices to identify risks and develop sustainable corrective action plans. This
course has no prerequisites.
C987 - Healthcare Information Technology - Healthcare Information Technology provides an opportunity to examine the use of technology in data
analysis and applications to improve outcomes in a patient-centered care environment. Students will apply strategic analysis to improve technology
function and interoperability within a community healthcare cooperative. This course has no prerequisites.
C988 - Population Healthcare Coordination - Population Healthcare Coordination provides an opportunity to examine population healthcare
strategies and community collaboration to impact at-risk demographic groups. Students will apply strategic change management and data analysis to
develop health initiatives for a large-scale population. This course has no prerequisites.
C989 - Challenges in Community Healthcare - Challenges in Community Healthcare provides an opportunity to explore organizational leadership
and problem-solving methods to collaborate with community leaders in a high-stakes healthcare environment. Students will apply collaborative
leadership skills and evidence-based practices as they develop community relationships to resolve critical issues in community health management.
This course has no prerequisites.
C990 - Integrated Health Leadership - Integrated Health Leadership provides an opportunity to examine integrated healthcare delivery systems and
person-centered care models for innovative solutions to critical challenges. The student will apply principles of collaborative leadership, disruptive
change, and catalyst evaluation to develop a holistic integrated healthcare system. This course has no prerequisites.
C991 - Health Leadership Capstone - The capstone is a student-designed project intended to illustrate the student’s ability to effect change in the
industry and demonstrate competence in all five program outcomes: transformational leader, value innovator, tactical manager, analyst, and integrated
systems expert. Students are required to collaborate with leaders in the healthcare industry to identify opportunities for improvement in healthcare,
propose a solution, and perform a business analysis to evaluate its feasibility. In addition, the capstone encourages work in the healthcare industry
that will be showcased in the student’s collection of work and help solidify professional relationships in the industry. This course has no prerequisites.
C992 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use dynamic technology to explore geometry, to use
axiomatic reasoning to prove statements about geometry, and to apply geometric models to solve real-life problems. Topics include axiomatic
systems, analytic proofs, coordinate geometry, plane and solid Euclidean geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, constructions, transformations,
deductive reasoning, and dynamic technology. For candidates enrolled in the MAMEMG program, College Algebra as well as Trigonometry and
Precalculus are prerequisites. For candidates enrolled in the MAMES program, Trigonometry and Precalculus is a prerequisite.
C993 - Structured Query Language - This course prepares the student for the Oracle Database SQL (1Z0-071) certification exam. Students will
master the SQL language that will allow them to restrict and sort data, create schema objects, control user access, and manage data, objects and
tables.
C994 - Fundamentals for Success in Business - Fundamentals for Success in Business is an introductory course that provides an overview of the
field of business and gives students an opportunity to explore their own strengths and passions in relation to the field. The course gives students a
basic understanding of how technology, emotional intelligence, global communication, and leadership styles affect the future of work. Students will
reflect on their place within and future contributions to the business world.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 175
C995 - SQL for Data Analysis - SQL for Data Analysis provides students the knowledge and tools necessary to master the SQL language. With a
focus on data analysis, this course will allow students to restrict and sort data, create schema objects, control user access, manage data, objects, and
tables, and perform data analysis. This course has no prerequisites.
C996 - Programming in Python - Programming in Python provides an overview of the Python programming language to graduate students in the
Master of Science in Data Analytics program. This course presents the basics of programming with Python, as well as the use of powerful libraries to
perform common tasks with ease. In addition, students will learn how to perform screen scraping, a useful way to gather data from the world wide web.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
C997 - R for Data Analysts - R for Data Analysts presents the R language, which provides a wide range of statistical functions. The course covers
the basics needed to manipulate data sets, as well as statistical and graphical functions needed for data analysis. Programming in Python is a
prerequisite to this course.
CQC2 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in relation to the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills
necessary to apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include
antiderivatives; indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; definite integrals; acceleration,
velocity, position, and initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration;
improper integration; area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations;
direction fields; growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
CUA1 - Culture - Focuses on the nature and role of culture and the importance of cultural groups and cultural identity.
CZC1 - Accounting II - Accounting II is a continuation of the topics that were addressed in Principles of Accounting. Accounting II focuses on ways in
which accounting principles are used in business operations, deepening the student's understanding of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(GAAP), inventory, liabilities, and budgets. This course also introduces topics that are important for corporate accounting and financial analysis.
D001 - Behavioral Support Strategies for K-12 Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Behavioral Support Strategies for K–12
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to work effectively with students exhibiting behavior in the classroom that is
below age and cultural norms. This course provides an overview of behavior disorders and the causes of them, appropriate research-based
intervention strategies (including positive behavior intervention and supports, multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS), and applied behavior analysis,
replacement behavior and reward strategies, culturally responsive practices, and data collection and assessment methods. Candidates emerge
prepared to strategize and recommend adjustments to the learning environment that support positive behavior and student success in the classroom
and beyond. This course also examines behavioral assessment and analysis, including the creation of Functional Behavior Assessment (FBA) and the
creation and monitoring of behavioral improvement plans (BIP) in an authentic learning environment. This course is designed to be taken by
candidates after they have completed C847: Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners; D002: Professional, Ethical, and Legal
Practices for Special Education; and C572: Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation.
D002 - Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education - Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education
prepares candidates to practice within ethical and legal guidelines in day-to-day teaching, stakeholder interactions, and other complex situations. This
course also provides an overview of the Code of Ethics and the Standards for Professional Practice from the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC),
which guide candidates to act in a professionally conscientious manner. Candidates will explore the legal foundations and case laws related to special
education to gain understanding of how legislation influences teaching and learning. This course is designed to be taken by candidates after they have
completed C847: Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners.
D003 - Assessment in Special Education - Assessment in Special Education prepares candidates to use multiple methods of assessment and data
sources in making educational decisions about the student and the learning environment. This course is designed to help provide an understanding of
how assessment data is used during screening in multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS), the eligibility process, the evaluation process, progress
monitoring, and data-based instructional decision-making. This course is designed to be taken by candidates after they have completed D002:
Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education and DRC1: Educational Assessment.
D004 - Collaborating with Partners for Student Success - Collaborating with Partners for Student Success prepares candidates to apply team
processes and communication strategies to collaborate in a culturally responsive manner with families, paraeducators, and other professionals (within
the school, other educational settings, and the community) to plan programs and access services for students with exceptionalities and their families.
The course introduces ways to enhance parental involvement and family engagement while teaching families and students advocacy throughout the
Individualized Education Program (IEP) and transition planning processes. This course also focuses on the components of the IEP and how the
practice of effective communication and collaboration skills is key to the program's development and implementation. This course is designed to be
taken by candidates after they have completed C847: Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners and D003: Assessment in
Special Education.
D005 - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Considerations for Instructional Planning
for Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities introduces candidates to a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the
learning of students with exceptionalities. The course focuses specifically on strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions;
making instructional decisions based on progress monitoring data; collaborating with general education teachers and paraeducators; teaching to
mastery; promoting generalization of learning; and teaching students with exceptionalities how to use self-assessment, problem solving, and other
cognitive strategies to organize critical content and meet their needs. This course is designed to be taken by candidates after they have completed
NHC1: Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation and D011: Instructional Planning and Presentation in Special Education.
D006 - Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Elementary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Instructional Strategies and
Technologies for Elementary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to use evidence-based instructional practices
appropriate for elementary students receiving special education services. The course includes cognitive and metacognitive strategies that elementary
students can use to acquire new content knowledge and generalize skills across learning environments. It also provides opportunities for candidates to
incorporate intensive instructional strategies and practice making accommodations to elementary math and English language arts lesson plans based
on learner characteristics, performance data, and Individualized Education Program (IEP) goals. In addition to discussing how to make appropriate
accommodations, the course teaches candidates how to assess student learning through progress monitoring and apply intensive interventions when
warranted. This course is designed to be taken by candidates after they have completed D005: Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners
with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities.
D007 - Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Secondary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Instructional Strategies and
Technologies for Secondary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to use evidence-based instructional practices
appropriate for use with secondary students receiving special education services. Strategies taught in this course focus on intensive instruction and
making accommodations to secondary lesson plans in order to develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills that students can use to enhance
acquisition of age-appropriate secondary content across academic disciplines. This course also promotes the achievement of Individualized Education
Program (IEP) and transition goals for independent living and career preparation through demonstration of strategies that increase students' self-
awareness, self-regulation, self-management, self-control, and self-esteem. This course is designed to be taken by candidates after they have
completed D005, Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 176
D008 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education - Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education is a culmination of the
wide variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you
will showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
D009 - Preclinical Experiences in Special Education - Pre-Clinical Experiences in Special Education provides candidates the opportunity to
observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an
effective teacher. Candidates will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance
assessments. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, candidates will be required to include a cleared background check, passing scores
on the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
D010 - Disciplinary Literacy - Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help candidates to develop the literacy skills necessary
to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Course content highlights strategies to help candidates
distinguish between the unique characteristics of informational texts while improving comprehension and writing proficiency across the curriculum.
Strategies to encourage inquiry and cultivate skills in critical thinking, collaboration, and creativity also are addressed. This course is designed to be
taken by candidates after they have completed NHC1: Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation and D011: Instructional Planning and
Presentation in Special Education.
D011 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Special Education - Instructional Planning and Presentation for Special Education builds upon
candidates’ foundational knowledge of instructional effectiveness to include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies,
assessment, engagement, integration of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and the use of data
to inform instruction. This course prepares candidates to plan and create direct instruction lesson plans for a diverse classroom of students. This
course is designed to be taken by candidates after they have completed NHC1: Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation.
D012 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs
1 and 2 involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance
data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D013 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special
Education, Obs 3 and Midterm involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D014 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs
4 and 5 involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance
data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D015 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education,
Obs 6 and Final involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive
performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D016 - Leadership Foundations and Ethics - Leadership Foundations and Ethics presents candidates with a variety of leadership theories and
strategies used by P–12 educational leaders to develop, sustain, and evaluate a coherent system of academic and social supports that meet the full
range of students' needs. Foundational knowledge addresses the importance of developing mission, vision, and core values in collaboration with
faculty, staff, and the school community to advocate for student success. The course also covers communication strategies, interpersonal skills, and
using data to build community, school culture, and manage change for continuous improvement. In addition, candidates are introduced to the
significance of following professional ethical codes and the importance of modeling and advocating ethical behavior with all stakeholders.
D017 - School Law - School Law prepares candidates to understand the application of laws, rights, policies, and regulations as appropriate to
promote student success. The course emphasizes the importance of understanding the history of and relationship between federal and state laws,
legal decisions, local education policies, and practices at the local school level to ensure compliance. The course further focuses on understanding the
legal rights and protections provided for all students, including those with disabilities, as well as school staff. It also addresses curriculum and
instruction that help stakeholders understand the possible effects these rights may have on administrative decisions. Candidates are also provided the
opportunity to demonstrate their capability to evaluate legal consequences of administrative decisions.
D018 - Leading Inclusive Schools - Leading Inclusive Schools covers a variety of topics that directly affect students who have been assessed and
determined to need additional support or services to assure their academic success and well-being. The course prepares candidates to understand
and comply with applicable laws, rights, policies, and regulations as appropriate to address matters of equity, fairness, and student marginalization
based on culture and language, disability, or giftedness. This course also addresses a brief overview of federal, state, and local government roles in
special education policies and best practices. These include types of special education classifications and their significance, working with English
learners (ELs), working with gifted and talented students, and fostering the best learning environments for diverse learners. The course will guide
candidates in building a strong repertoire of skills and knowledge related to exceptional students, helping them ensure that each student has equitable
access to effective teachers; learning opportunities; academic, social, and behavioral support; and other resources necessary for success. This course
is designed to be taken after successful completion of the School Law course.
D019 - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices focuses on the development of data literacy
skills educators need to improve the learning and development opportunities of P–12 students. Candidates will apply their skills, including identifying
educational problems and data types, generating data, analyzing data, making inferences and drawing conclusions, and creating action plans within
their educational settings. Candidates will also learn best practices for data literacy, including continuous improvement planning, approaches to
professional learning communities, and instructional decision-making processes. This course has no prerequisites.
D020 - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning focuses on fostering cultural
competence among professional educators by increasing knowledge of diverse learner populations, implementing culturally responsive pedagogy, and
ensuring social justice and equity in the educational setting. Candidates also will participate in learning experiences designed to ensure they can lead
efforts to meet the social and emotional learning needs of all learners, contributing to a school environment that builds learners' personal agency and
academic success. Advocacy strategies are learned in this course, ensuring candidates possess the tools to positively impact school environments
both locally and globally. This course has no prerequisites.
D021 - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction prepares candidates to evaluate and
implement curricular programs and instructional methods observed at the school level. Candidates focus on the knowledge and skills needed to
develop, align, and implement cohesive systems of curriculum, instruction, and assessment. Importance is placed on responding to student needs,
embodying high expectations for student learning, aligning with academic standards within and across grade levels, and promoting students' academic
success and social and emotional well-being. This course also covers the selection and use of appropriate technologies to monitor student progress
and improve instruction support for assessment, data collection, management, and analysis. Candidates are prepared to build a professional culture of
trust and collaboration to ensure they are able to work with school personnel in creating curricular programs and instructional methods that are
engaging and challenging and that are relevant to student needs, experiences, and interests. This course is designed to be taken after successful
completion of the School Law course.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 177
D022 - People and Talent in Educational Leadership - People and Talent in Educational Leadership prepares candidates to understand and
implement practices used to recruit, hire, and prepare school personnel to provide students with an optimal learning environment. Candidates will
cover various school professional development practices such as professional learning communities, collaborative learning communities, beginning
teacher induction, and mentor programs. Additionally the course covers methods to evaluate school personnel appropriately based on data driven
decisions; providing realistic and actionable feedback to school personnel to continuously drive improvement; engaging all school personnel in the use
and evaluation of competing school-wide initiatives; creating and sustaining a professional culture of engagement and commitment by developing
workplace conditions that promote employee development, wellbeing, and professional growth; and continuously supporting school personnel to
improve their instructional practices through ongoing professional development. The candidate will also reflect on leadership standards in order to
develop a personal professional growth plan. A prerequisite for this course is School Law.
D023 - School Financial Leadership - School Financial Leadership focuses on financial policies, practices, and issues connected to P–12 school
operations. The course describes various sources of school funding, the impact these sources can have on managing school budgets, and the
challenges connected to finances that are often encountered by school leaders to ensure equitable financial support for all students. Candidates learn
how to analyze different types of school budgets and understand the principal's role in the budgetary process to ensure alignment to the school's
mission, vision and values. This course also identifies and explains various types of commonly used accounting regulations, rules, and professional
ethical principles used to create, maintain, and evaluate school budgets to ensure the equitable and ethical use of financial resources. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of the School Law course.
D033 - Healthcare Information Systems Management - Healthcare Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of
information systems in healthcare. The course explores how information technology (IT) is an organizational resource that must be managed so that it
supports or enables healthcare organizational strategy. The course will discuss how decision support and communication are securely facilitated in the
healthcare marketplace. The course also explores current and continuously evolving technologies, strategic thinking, and issues at the intersection of
health information management and technology.
D034 - Systems Management and School Operations - Systems management and school operations instruct candidates on the operational aspects
of school leadership that are essential to developing, monitoring, and evaluating school management, school systems, and services that address and
support the needs of students and school personnel. Topics presented in this course include systems thinking; development, implementation, and
evaluation of data-based strategic planning; and school improvement processes. Candidates will evaluate the use of appropriate operational
technology and the development of communications systems that provide actionable information to internal and external stakeholders for use in
classroom and school improvement and community engagement. Each of these topics emphasizes the importance of efficiently and effectively
managing school resources to build, maintain, and evaluate a cohesive system of academic and organizational supports, services, extracurricular
activities, and accommodations to meet the full range of needs for each student. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
School Law.
D035 - Educational Inquiry - Educational Inquiry focuses on practical problem solving. Candidates completing this course will learn to use scholarly
literature to inform their own practice. Candidates will also learn to engage in their own action research processes, which empowers educators to
recognize opportunities for improvement and to systematically implement and evaluate changes. Candidates will exit this course prepared to conduct
research for the capstone. Data Literacy is a prerequisite for this course.
D036 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional Practices - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional
Practices provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the first of
a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at an
approved practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas directly or indirectly
affecting students. Collaboration within the school and local community is a focal point for this course. The course also includes the completion of
assigned administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating
administrator of the candidate's approved practicum site.
D037 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and Operations - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction
and Operations provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the
second of a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at
an approved practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas affecting school
operations and school personnel. The course also includes the completion of assigned administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the
candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating administrator of the candidate's approved practicum site.
D038 - Educational Leadership Capstone - Educational Leadership Capstone serves as the culminating experience of this degree program, uniting
content area knowledge with the execution of a problem-based learning project. Under the guidance of program faculty, candidates will apply their
data literacy and research skills authentically and to topics appropriate to the candidate's degree program and future career goals. Projects will include
action research or program evaluation and the qualitative or quantitative research methods necessitated by the project's purpose. Prerequisites
include Data Literacy and Educational Inquiry, as well as all content area courses and field experiences prescribed in one's area of study. This course
is designed to be taken after successful completion of all Educational Leadership courses.
DPT1 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves, focusing on such topics as: Electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism, electromagnetic
induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
DPT2 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves, focusing on such topics as: Electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism, electromagnetic
induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
DRC1 - Educational Assessment - Educational Assessment assists students in making appropriate data-driven instructional decisions by exploring
key concepts relevant to the administration, scoring, and interpretation of classroom assessments. Topics include ethical assessment practices,
designing assessments, aligning assessments, and utilizing technology for assessment.
DWP2 - Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods - Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods helps students learn how to
implement effective social studies instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include social studies themes, promoting cultural diversity,
integrated social studies across the curriculum, social studies learning environments, assessing social studies understanding, differentiated instruction
for social studies, technology for social studies instruction, and standards-based social studies instruction. This course helps students to apply,
analyze, and reflect on effective elementary social studies instruction.
DZP2 - Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods - Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods helps
students learn how to implement effective visual and performing arts instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include integrating arts across the
curriculum, music education, visual arts, dance and movement, dramatic arts, differentiated instruction for visual and performing arts, and promoting
cultural diversity through visual and performing arts instruction. This course helps students to apply, analyze, and reflect on effective elementary visual
and performing arts instruction.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 178
EBP2 - Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods - Applications of Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods
helps students learn how to implement effective physical and health education instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include healthy
lifestyles, student safety, student nutrition, physical education, differentiated instruction for physical and health education, physical education across
the curriculum, and public policy in health and physical education. This course helps students to apply, analyze, and reflect on effective elementary
visual and performing arts instruction.
EFP1 - Cultural Studies and Diversity - Cultural Studies and Diversity focuses on the development of cultural awareness. Students will analyze the
role of culture in today’s world, develop culturally-responsive practices, and understand the barriers to and the benefits of diversity.
EFV2 - Behavioral Management and Intervention - Behavioral Management and Intervention explores the challenges of working with students with
emotional and behavioral disabilities and helps students learn about theories, interventions, practices, and assessments that can influence these
children's opportunities for success. It further helps students better be able to make decisions about how to strategize behavior adjustments for
individual students.
ELO1 - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL integrates aspects of pedagogy, assessment, and professionalism in
English Language Learning (ELL). A student develops and assesses aspects of language curriculum development including second language
instruction, methods of second language assessment, and legal policy issues.
FCC2 - Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal Issues, Policies and Procedures - Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal
Issues introduces the history and nature of special education, how special education relates to general education, and specific legal acts and concepts
that govern special education. Topics include the histories of special education, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), free and
appropriate public education (FAPE), and Least Restrictive Environment (LRE).
FEA1 - Field Experience for ELL - Field Experience for ELL is the field experience component of the English Language Learning program. In this
experience, students are required to complete a minimum of 15 hours of observations at both elementary and secondary levels. Additionally, a
supervised teaching experience that is face-to-face with English language learners according to the minimum time requirements of your state is
required. The purpose of this course is to assess the ability of the student including their engagement in field experience activities, ability to reflect on
and then plan standards-based instruction in ELL, and their ability to locate and effectively use resources for teaching ELL to meet the needs of their
individual students.
FJC2 - Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP Development/Implementation - Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP
Development/Implementation prepares candidates to apply knowledge of the IEP process as they work with students who have mild to moderate
disabilities in a wide variety of possible situations, all with an emphasis on cross-categorical inclusion. It helps candidates gain fluency in their
understanding of disability categories, assessment, curriculum, and instruction.
FLC2 - Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and Culturally Responsive Teaching - Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and
Culturally Responsive Teaching helps students understand the role of special education in the development of instruction, why this field exists
separate from and in conjunction with general education, where it is going, and how they can help coordinate inclusion for students. Students will gain
expertise in developing instructional, curricular, and environmental interventions based on assessment data and student need.
FVC1 - Global Business - This course provides an introduction to global business. The advantages of global production and the benefits of trade are
critical aspects of global business. Many factors influence global business, such as transparency, geography, corruption, intellectual property
protections, outsourcing and off-shoring, operation management, and generally accepted accounting principles.
HMP1 - Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management - During Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management students apply their
knowledge of human resource management by completing a case study. Students will apply critical human resource strategies in the areas of
legal/regulatory compliance, recruitment and selection of personnel, performance and feedback mechanisms, and financial and benefits
compensation.
IDC1 - Foundations of Instructional Design - Foundations of Instructional Design provides an overview of how to select the most appropriate
learning theories, design processes, and instructional strategies based on learner audience, instructional setting, and current and desired state of
learning.
IYT2 - Introduction to Curriculum Theory - For over 200 years, educators in the United States have debated the purpose of education. Should
education be for enlightenment or to prepare students for the life of work? Should education be for many or for a select few? These questions continue
to be debated today. Through curriculum theory and reflection, educators have an educational framework by which to understand how theory and
one's philosophical views can impact the design, development, and implementation of curriculum and instruction. With this in mind, Introduction to
Curriculum Theory focuses on exploring and applying an understanding of Scholar Academic, Social Efficiency, Learner Centered, and Social
Reconstruction ideologies in various instructional settings and on the development on one’s own curriculum philosophy.
IZT2 - Learning Theories - Learning Theories focuses on the complexity of the current learning environment and how behaviorism, cognitivism,
constructivism, and personal learning philosophy can assist in the development of appropriate curriculum and instruction.
JNT2 - Instructional Design Analysis - Instructional Design Analysis focuses on using analysis of needs to determine the needs and interests of
learners, and scope and sequence for developing a logical approach for an education program to formulate appropriate and measurable program
objectives.
JOT2 - Issues in Instructional Design - Issues in Instructional Design focuses on learning theories, learner analysis, scope and sequence,
instructional strategies, task analysis and design theories, media and technology foundations, and adaptive technologies for special populations for
creating effective, well-articulated, and efficient instruction.
JPT2 - Instructional Design Production - Instructional Design Production focuses on the application of a systematic process of instructional design,
namely the concepts and procedure for analyzing and designing successful instruction. This course will prepare students to conduct a goal analysis, a
process used to identify instructional goals, as well as a task analysis, which is used to determine the skills and knowledge required to accomplish
those goals. This course also focuses on writing performance objectives, designing assessments, and developing instruction that incorporates relevant
learning theories. Methods for formatively evaluating a unit of instruction are also introduced. There are no prerequisites for this course.
JQT2 - Issues in Measurement and Evaluation - Issues in Measurement and Evaluation focuses on the understanding of formative and summative
evaluation, quantitative and qualitative data collection tools, including rubrics and the processes of evaluation.
JRT2 - Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation - Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation focuses on using qualitative and quantitative
data collection tools and techniques to construct and evaluate valid and reliable measuring instruments.
JST2 - Evaluation Process and Recommendation - Evaluation Process and Recommendation focuses on implementing and interpreting an
evaluation and the reporting of the results and recommendations to stakeholders.
JWT2 - Instructional Theory - Instructional Theory focuses on exploring instructional design theory and related models and processes. Students will
apply instructional design principles to the design and delivery of plans to meet the learning needs found in the instructional setting.
JXT2 - Educational Psychology - Educational Psychology examines the latest findings in child and adolescent development and provides educators
the opportunity to apply educational psychology to various instructional settings. Students will explore the areas of applied educational psychology to
teaching, cognitive development, social development, and cultural development. They will design, develop, modify, and evaluate curriculum and
instruction in various educational settings according to child/adolescent development.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 179
JYT2 - Curriculum Design - Curriculum Design focuses on exploring curriculum design theory, educational standards, and design frameworks for
what to teach. Together these topics will provide educators with the ability to take principles of curriculum design theory and related models and apply
them when developing, designing, and modifying curriculum to meet learning needs in their instructional setting.
JZT2 - Curriculum Evaluation - Curriculum Evaluation focuses on exploring evaluation systems and student data to determine the effectiveness of
curriculum. It also focuses on differentiating curriculum based on student data.
KAT2 - Assessment for Student Learning - Assessment for Student Learning focuses on developing the knowledge and skills to identify, develop,
and design instrument tools for evaluating student learning. It also explores the use of objective and performance-based, formative, and summative
assessments and their results in the evaluation of curriculum and instruction for student learning.
KBT2 - Differentiated Instruction - Differentiated Instruction focuses on developing and implementing curriculum and instruction that that best meets
the needs of all learners within a given instructional setting.
LEC1 - Comprehensive Educational Leadership Integration - You will complete a comprehensive objective proctored assessment in Educational
Leadership theory and practices, including administrative theory, school law, school finance, curriculum development and implementation, personnel
management, public relations, and technology. You will be required to pass the Comprehensive Educational Leadership Integration objective
assessment.
LFT1 - Student, Stakeholder, and Market Focus for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews principles and practices of meeting
stakeholder needs and reviews your case study site’s effectiveness in managing stakeholder relationships.
LMT1 - Measurement, Analysis, and Knowledge Management for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews principles and practices of
program and curriculum effectiveness evaluation as well as best practices in technology for educational leaders. You also complete a program,
practice, or curriculum effectiveness evaluation in your case study site as well as an evaluation of technology implementation.
LNT1 - Process Management for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews best practices in process management for educational leaders, as
well as an evaluation of your case study site’s process management policies and practices.
LPA1 - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition focuses on describing and understanding
language and the development of language. It includes the study of acquisition theory, grammar, and applied phonetics.
LPT1 - Performance Excellence Criteria for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews the case study model and prepares you to complete a
thorough review of the effectiveness of their case study site’s operations, outcomes, and leadership.
LRT1 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Foundational Perspectives of Education includes a series of performance tasks to take place under
the leadership of a practicing state licensed school principal or assistant principal in a practicum school site (K–12). This assessment also includes
completion of assigned administrative duties to take place in both elementary (K–6) and secondary (7–12) settings under the leadership and
supervision of the cooperating administrator in your case study school site. Practicum requirements vary by state of intended licensure and WGU
program requirements, and the standard has been set between 275 and 540 of logged practicum activities that span a minimum of six consecutive
months. Please refer back to the WGU Student Handbook for reference of your program requirements. You are required to pass the Practicum in
Educational Leadership performance assessments and successfully submit other documentation, including evaluations of your performance
completed by the cooperating administrator and documentation of completion of state-required hours of assigned administrative duties. The
Educational Leadership Practicum requires a practicum fee. During the Educational Leadership Practicum, you are also expected to take and pass
your state's licensure examination(s) required for certification as a school principal and the PRAXIS 5411 Educational Leadership: Administration and
Supervision exam.
LST1 - Strategic Planning for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews principles and practices of the strategic planning process as well as a
case study review of the strategic planning processes in your case study site.
LWT1 - Workforce Focus for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews best practices in human resource administration for educational
leaders, as well as an evaluation of your case study site’s workforce management practices.
LZT2 - Power, Influence and Leadership - Power, Influence and Leadership focuses on the development of the critical leadership and soft skills
necessary for success in information technology leadership and management. The course focuses specifically on skills such as cultivating effective
leadership communication, building personal influence, enhancing emotional intelligence (soft skills), generating ideas and encouraging idea
generation in others, conflict resolution, and positioning oneself as an influential change agent within different organizational cultures. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
MBT2 - Technological Globalization - Technological Globalization explores information and communication technologies used to meet business
needs in global markets. IT executives must analyze their organization’s technological needs, develop internationally-capable strategic plans, and
mitigate the operational challenges of each of the countries in which the organization does business. This course provides students with the practical
knowledge and understanding of how to plan, evaluate, and successfully integrate effective and efficient technical communication solutions in the
global business market. This course has no prerequisites.
MEC1 - Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation - Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation focuses on assessment validity, constructing
reliable test instruments, identifying appropriate item and instrument types, qualitative data collection tools and techniques, and conducting a formative
and summative evaluation for an instruction product or program.
MFT2 - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense: Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Defense focuses on a
formal presentation. The student will present an overview of their teacher work sample (TWS) portfolio discussing the challenges they faced and how
they determined whether their goals were accomplished. They will explain the process they went through to develop the TWS portfolio and reflect on
the methodologies and outcomes of the strategies discussed in the TWS portfolio. Additionally, they will discuss the strengths and weaknesses of
those strategies and how they can apply what they learned from the TWS portfolio in their professional work environment.
MGT2 - IT Project Management - IT Project Management provides an overview of the Project Management Institute’s project management
methodology. Topics cover various process groups and knowledge areas and application of knowledge in case studies for planning a project that has
not started yet and monitoring/controlling a project that is already underway.
MMT2 - IT Strategic Solutions - In IT Strategic Solutions the learner will have the opportunity to identify strategic opportunities and emerging
technologies as they research and decide on a system to support a growing company. Topics will include technology strategy; gap analysis;
researching new technology; strengths, opportunities, weaknesses, and threats; ethics; risk mitigation; data security, communication plans; and
globalization.
NHC1 - Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation - Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation prepares candidates with
the basic understanding of effective instructional principles and how to differentiate instruction. Through exploration of learning environments,
technology, learning resources, collaboration, assessments, and lesson plans, this course provides candidates with the necessary foundational
knowledge to use research-based strategies to plan effectively for students. This course has no prerequisites.
NMA1 - Professional Role of the ELL Teacher - The Professional Role of the ELL Teacher focuses on issues of professionalism for the English
Language Learning teacher and leader. This includes program development, ethics, engagement in professional organizations, serving as a resource,
and ELL advocacy.
NNA1 - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction focuses on a variety of philosophies and
grade levels of English Language Learner (ELL) instruction. It includes the study of ELL listening and speaking, ELL reading and writing, specially
designed academic instruction in English (SDAIE), and specific issues for various grade level instruction.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 180
OOT2 - Mathematics History and Technology - In this course, you will learn about a variety of technological tools for doing mathematics, and
develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. You will come to understand that mathematics is a very human subject
that comes from the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change, as well as the micro-level actions of individuals with personal, professional,
and philosophical motivations. You will focus on the historical development of mathematics including contributions of significant figures and diverse
cultures. Most importantly, you will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and historical information to create an enriching student-centered
mathematical learning environment.
OPT2 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help you develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
become a prospective and practicing educator. You will be able to use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the learning of
mathematics. This course focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and instructional planning, with methods based on
research and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an
effective secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
PFHM - Business - HR Management Portfolio Requirement - Students prepare a culminating professional portfolio to demonstrate the
competencies they have learned throughout their program. The portfolio includes a strengths essay, a career report, a reflection essay, a résumé, and
exhibits demonstrating personal strengths in the work place.
PFIT - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement is designed to help the learner
complete the culminating Undergraduate Business Portfolio assessment; it focuses on developing a business portfolio containing a strengths essay, a
career report, a reflection essay, a resume, and exhibits that support one’s strengths in the work place.
QDT1 - Abstract Algebra - Abstract Algebra is the axiomatic and rigorous study of the underlying structure of algebra and arithmetic. It covers the
knowledge and skills necessary to understand, apply, and prove theorems about numbers, groups, rings, and fields. Topics include the well-ordering
principle, equivalence classes, the division algorithm, Euclid's algorithm, prime factorization, greatest common divisor, least common multiple,
congruence, the Chinese remainder theorem, modular arithmetic, rings, integral domains, fields, groups, roots of unity, and homomorphisms. Linear
Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
QDT2 - Abstract Algebra - Abstract Algebra is the axiomatic and rigorous study of the underlying structure of algebra and arithmetic. It covers the
knowledge and skills necessary to understand, apply, and prove theorems about numbers, groups, rings, and fields. Topics include the well-ordering
principle, equivalence classes, the division algorithm, Euclid's algorithm, prime factorization, greatest common divisor, least common multiple,
congruence, the Chinese remainder theorem, modular arithmetic, rings, integral domains, fields, groups, roots of unity, and homomorphisms. Linear
Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
QET1 - Business - HR Management Capstone Project - For the Business - HR Management Capstone Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that offers HR products or services. The business plan includes a
market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to the chosen company.
QFT1 - Business - IT Management Capstone Project - The capstone requires students to demonstrate the integration and synthesis of
competencies in all domains required for the degree in Information Technology Management. The student produces a business plan for a start-up
company that is selected and approved by the student and mentor.
QGT1 - Business Management Capstone Written Project - For the Business Management Capstone Written Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that plans to sell a product or service in a local market, national
market, or on the Internet. The business plan includes a market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to
the chosen company.
QHT1 - Business Management Tasks - Business Management Tasks addresses important concepts needed to effectively manage a
business. Topics include the cost-quality relationship, the use of various types of graphical charts in operations management, managing innovation,
and developing strategies for working with individuals and groups.
QIT1 - Business Marketing Management Capstone Written Project - For the Business Marketing Management Capstone Project students will
integrate and synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their
chosen professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that provides some type of marketing product or service. The
business plan includes a market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to the chosen company.
QJT2 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use
differential calculus of one variable and appropriate technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains
and ranges; limits, continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and
sum rules applied to polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Candidates should have completed a course in
Pre-Calculus before engaging in this course.
QTT2 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of
operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets
of real numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, trees and networks, and permutation and combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
RKT1 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use appropriate technology to
model and solve real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector
representation Ax=b, row reduction, linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection), matrix operations,
matrix inverses and invertible matrix characterizations, computing determinants, relating determinants to area and volume, and axiomatic and intuitive
definitions of vector spaces and subspaces and how to prove theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus II are prerequisites for this
course.
RKT2 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use appropriate technology to
model and solve real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector
representation Ax=b, row reduction, linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection), matrix operations,
matrix inverses and invertible matrix characterizations, computing determinants, relating determinants to area and volume, and axiomatic and intuitive
definitions of vector spaces and subspaces and how to prove theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus II are prerequisites for this
course.
RNT1 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics,
and electricity and magnetism and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
RNT2 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics,
and electricity and magnetism and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 181
RXT2 - Precalculus and Calculus - Precalculus and Calculus provides instruction in precalculus and calculus and applies them to examples found in
both mathematics and science. Topics in precalculus include principles of trigonometry, mathematical modeling, and logarithmic, exponential,
polynomial, and rational functions. Topics in calculus include conceptual knowledge of limit, continuity, differentiability, and integration.
SLO1 - Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar - Theories of Second Language Learning Acquisition and Grammar covers
content material in applied linguistics, including morphology, syntax, semantics, and grammar. Students will explore the role of dialect in the
classroom, the connections between language and culture, and the theories of first and second language acquisition.
TAT2 - Technology Production - Technology Production focuses on the foundations of media and technology, integrated technology development,
and the integration of technology into appropriate instructional uses of productivity, and applying different research applications in the learning
environment.
TDT1 - Technology Design Portfolio - Technology Design Portfolio focuses on gaining a broad overview of the field of technology integration with a
fundamental understanding of some key concepts and principles, and enhancing technology skills to enable the producing of exportable instructional
and professional products using various integrated application programs.
TET1 - Issues in Technology Integration - Issues in Technology Integration focuses on the legal and ethical practice of technology, some personal
uses of electronic resources, the need for protection of information, the foundations of media and technology, what electronic learning communities
are, and the adaptive technologies for special populations.
TOC2 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data, including representations, constructions and interpretation of graphical displays (e.g., box
plots, histograms, cumulative frequency plots, scatter plots). Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. Candidates should have completed a
course in College Algebra before engaging in this course.
TQC1 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data and includes statistical variability and its sources and the role of randomness in statistical inference. Topics
include discrete and continuous random variables, expected values, the Central Limit Theorem, the identification of unusual samples, population
parameters, point estimates, confidence intervals, influences on accuracy and precision, hypothesis testing and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion,
one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation). Calculus II and Probability and Stats I are prerequisites to
this course.
TQC2 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data and includes statistical variability and its sources and the role of randomness in statistical inference. Topics
include discrete and continuous random variables, expected values, the Central Limit Theorem, the identification of unusual samples, population
parameters, point estimates, confidence intervals, influences on accuracy and precision, hypothesis testing and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion,
one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation). Calculus II and Probability and Stats I are prerequisites to
this course.
TVT2 - Governance, Finance, Law, and Leadership for Principals - This subdomain contains content in educational law, finance, and
administration as well as a case study review of your site’s leadership practices.
UFC1 - Managerial Accounting - This course focuses on identifying, gathering, and interpreting information that will be used for evaluating and
managing the performance of a business. Students will also study cost measurement for producing goods and services and how to analyze and
control these costs.
UQT1 - Organic Chemistry - This course focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize and
group these compounds based on common bonds found within them in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity.
VYC1 - Principles of Accounting - Principles of Accounting focuses on ways in which accounting principles are used in business operations.
Students learn the basics of accounting, including how to use generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), ledgers, and journals. Students will
also be introduced to the steps of the accounting cycle, concepts of assets and liabilities, and general information about accounting information
systems. This course also presents bank reconciliation methods, balance sheets, and business ethics.
VZT1 - Marketing Applications - Marketing Applications allows students to apply their knowledge of core marketing principles by creating a
comprehensive marketing plan. Their plan will apply their knowledge of the marketing planning process, market analysis, and the marketing mix
(product, place, promotion, and price).
© Western Governors University 3/21/19 182
Course Instructor Directory
General Education
Adams, William R; MA, Savannah College of Art & Design
Alexander, Ledora; EdS, Walden University
Alexander, Matthew R; PhD, Kent State University
Anger, Carly; PhD, Marquette University
Ashe, James Russell; PhD, University of Tennessee
Askinosie, Scott Kelsey; PhD, University of Missouri
Barford, Mary Florence; PhD, Purdue University
Barnes, Lori Elizabeth; PhD, West Virginia University
Battistelli, Todd Joseph; PhD, University of Texas at Austin
Baty, Amanda M; PhD, Texas Tech University
Behrmann, Erika Marie; PhD, Bowling Green State University
Bendall, Gareth; PhD, University of Kentucky
Bennett, William D; PhD, University of Iowa
Benson, Bryan; PhD, Boston College
Bilbrey, Joshua; PhD, Texas State University
Biroschak, Bart A; Specialist Degree, University of Cincinnati
Bissler, Mark W; PhD, Kent State University
Borden, Anne Louise; PhD, Emory University
Brewer, Craig Nolan; PhD, University of Notre Dame
Brewer, Michael R; ABD, Northcentral University
Brown, Bonnie Jean; PhD, Stephen F. Austin State University
Brown, Carrie Margaret; PhD, Saint Louis University
Browning, Ellen Stringer; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Brulotte, Melissa; PhD, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
Buchanan, Antwana Tenielle; EdD, Lipscomb University
Burch, Tanya Catherine; PhD, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill
Byrnes, Sean T; PhD, Emory University
Califano, Joanne S; MS , Nazareth College of Rochester, NY
Campbell, Robert J; MFA, Murray State University
Carper, David; PhD, Yale University
Carrier, Rebecca Ann; PhD, University of Illinois
Castaneda, Gilivaldo; MEd, University of Texas at San Antonio
Chaves Ulloa, Ramsa Isabel; PhD, Dartmouth College
Chevalier, Dorene A; MEd, Anna Maria College
Chittick, Sharla; PhD, University of Stirling
Cowan, Christy Miller; PhD, University of South Carolina
Crawford, Nathan; PhD, University of Tennessee
Crooks, Kathleen Schwartz; PhD, University of Akron
Crookston, Andrew James; PhD, Washington State University
Cutler, Ned Shane; PhD, Duke University
Dempster, Wesley Craig; PhD, Bowling Green State University
Dillon, Jeanette Marie Muhleman; PhD, Bowling Green State University
Dodge, Joshua Joseph; MA, University of Central Florida
Dorre, Gina M; PhD, Tulane University
Douglas, Katherine; PhD, University of California San Diego
Duff, Kandi L; EdD, Idaho State University
Dungar, Michael; MA, Boston College
Edmunds, Jeffrey Laurence; PhD, University of Arizona
Evans, Robin; PhD, Oklahoma State University
Evenson Newhouse, Ranae Jo; PhD, Vanderbilt University
Fehnel, Bradley J; MS, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Francis, Katherine A; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Franco, Heidi; PhD, University of Utah
Galindez, Dahlia E; MA, Western Governors University
Gbur, Robin; PhD, University of New Mexico
Goodwin, Rachel Lee; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 183
Gordon, Kelley A; PhD, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Gravitte, Kristen Barber; PhD, University of Tulsa
Grzadzielewski, Andrew A; PhD, University of Washington
Gumaer, Dennis; PhD, University of California Riverside
Halula, Stephen P; PhD, Marquette University
Harney, Isaiah Hampton; PhD, University of Kentucky
Harris, Steven; PhD, Indiana University Bloomington
Hayne, Victoria; PhD, University of California, Los Angeles
Hildebrandt, Jill Renae; PhD, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Hillyer, Aaron; PhD, University of Nebraska
Hodgess, Erin M; Doctorate Degree, Temple University
Hoffman, John W; PhD, Kent State University
Holland, Sarah Nicole; PhD, University of Arkansas
Horne, Lisa; MA, Brigham Young University
Hurley, Norman L; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Jackson, Patrick Wayne; ABD, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Jensen, Taylor Austin; PhD, Montana State University
Jesse, Odin R; PhD, Texas Tech University
Johnson, Cassandra D; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Johnson, Kristi Whitfield; PhD, Louisiana State University
Johnson, Sarah; PhD, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Johnson, Stephanie Renea; MBA, Alabama A&M University
Jones, Lee C; PhD, Clark Atlanta University
Kalikanda, Jane Mwia; PhD, Binghamton University
Kasper, Gwendolyn Brown; MA, Western Governors University
Kelley, Matthew T; PhD, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Kelly, Lynn Grant; EdD, Argosy University
Kim, Doe-Hyung; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Kim, Mijung; PhD, Ohio State University
Knieps, Linda Jean; PhD, Vanderbuilt University
Knous, Helen Melissa; PhD, Texas A&M University Commerce
Ku, James Yu; PhD, Northcentral University
Landry, Stan M; PhD, University of Arizona
Latham, Kary Anne; PhD, University of Tennessee
Leep, Matthew Aaron; PhD, University of Connecticut
Lettau, Lisa M; PhD, University of Delaware
Licursi, Kimberly J; PhD, University at Albany
Lukin, Kara Rosamond; PhD, University of Colorado
Luton, John W; PhD, Regent University
Madden, James Daniel; MA, Eastern Kentucky University
Maestri, Melissa Amy; PhD, University of Delaware
Mammen, John P; EdD, University of Phoenix
Mantooth, Stacy J; PhD, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Martin, Jonathan; MA, Texas Tech University
McCune, Timothy J; PhD, Southern Illinois University
McWatters, Mason Russell; PhD, University of Texas at Austin
Metoki, Kiyoko; PhD, University of Kansas
Meyer, Nicolas David; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Miller, Don-Ricardo Adebbe; PhD, Morehouse School of Medicine
Miller-Monfils, Janet M; PhD, Wayne State University
Moody, Vivian Robinson; PhD, University of Georgia
Mosgrove, Sharon M; PhD, University of Iowa
Mosley, Jill D; PhD, Capella University
Muhovich, Edward Alan; PhD, University of Denver
Mullins, Christopher Scott; Specialist Degree, University of Louisville
Mzoughi, Taha; PhD, University of South Carolina
Nader, Martin J; PhD, University of Nebraska
Nash, LeAnn; PhD, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Nelson, Angela H; PhD, Cornell University
Norton, Cindy Carol; EdD, Grand Canyon University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 184
Ouellette, David; PhD, Virginia Commonwealth University
Overmyer, Gerald R; PhD, Colorado State University
Palmer, Michael; PhD, Texas Tech University
Pankowski, Margaret; EdD, Duquesne University
Parker, Allison Leigh; MFA, University of North Carolina at Wilmington
Parker, Debra G; PhD, Illinois State University
Parrish, Anca M; PhD, University of Memphis
Parton, Sabrena R; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Parvin, Kathleen A; PhD, Purdue University
Potter, Christine; PhD, University of Iowa
Quintela, Melissa K; PhD, Indiana University
Radosavljevic, Alexander; PhD, University of Illinois - Chicago
Redkey, Elizabeth; PhD, University at Albany, State University of New York
Remington, Theodore J; PhD, University of Iowa
Rhodes, Kristofer Michael; PhD, University of California Irvine
Richardson, Curtis L; PhD, Northern Illinois University
Richeson, Jennifer Elizabeth; PhD, Michigan State University
Roberts, Jennifer Marshall; EdD, Walden University
Robinson, Ami Sessions; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Robinson, Jeffery Scott; DMin, Drew University
Rosenblatt, Heather L; PhD, Ohio State University
Ross, Brittany Ann; ABD, Regent University
Rothrock, Teresa Joyce; PhD, University of Oklahoma
Saddler, Derrick; PhD, University of South Florida
Sadler, Benjamin D; PhD, Florida State University
Sanchez, Melvin Alexander; PhD, University of California Irvine
Sandlin, William Scott; PhD, Texas Tech University
Santoro, Lauren Marie; PhD, West Virginia University
Sayre Baptista, Amy J; MFA, University of Illinois, Urbana
Scotece, Shannon Marie; PhD, State University of New York at Albany
Scott, Jessica Mae; PhD, Brigham Young University
Service, Rachel J; PhD, University of California Riverside
Shahi, Kimberly Rae; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Sharpe, Robert Barry; PhD, University of South Carolina
Simeon, Patricia; EdD, Grambling State University
Simmons, Nathaniel; PhD, Ohio University
Simms, Edward; EdS, Alabama State University
Simon, Gregory G; PhD, University of Michigan
Sink, Cristina A; MEd, Northern Kentucky University
Smith, Michael R; PhD, Institute for Doctoral Studies in the Visual Arts
Smithers, Dayna Brown; ABD, East Tennessee State University
Smits Masten, Sally Lynn; PhD, University of North Carolina
Sperry, Amanda N; PhD, Georgia State University
Springfield, Derriell Montez; EdD, East Tennessee State University
St Martin, Ashley; MS, University of Vermont
Starr, Neil; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Storm, Anna; PhD, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Strong, Nicole L; PhD, Clark Atlanta University
Stuckey, Lexi Lee; PhD, University of Tulsa
Sviderskaya, Ilona; PhD, University of Iowa
Teters, Kristopher A; PhD, University of Alabama
Thomsen, Kyle B; PhD, Loyola University of Chicago
Timmer, Kristin M; PhD, University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center
Tolin Schultz, Alexandra; PhD, Stony Brook University
Torrens, Amanda; PhD, Ohio University
Tucker, Diana L; PhD, Southern Illinois University Carbondale
Turner, Brandon Edward; ABD, The Catholic University of America
Tweedy, Joanna Beth; PhD, Benedictine University
Vasquez, Lauren Michel; PhD, Mississippi State University
Vida, Anna; MFA, Arizona State University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 185
Walker, Hope; MA, Courtauld Institute of Art
Weaver, Matthew Strode; PhD, Washington State University
Webb, James David; MA, Pacific University in Oregon
Wellinghoff, Lisa A; PhD, University of Tulsa
Westmoreland, Brandi Davis; PhD, Texas A&M University Commerce
Wicker, Michael; EdD, Stephen F. Austin State University
Wittenborn, Erika F; PhD, University of Colorado at Boulder
Woolridge, Mary J; PhD, University of Central Florida
Young, Michael Eugene; ABD, University of Missouri Saint Louis
Yunker, Mathew M; PhD, University of California, Irvine
Zivkovic, Vladimir B; PhD, University of North Dakota
Teachers College
Aafif, Amal; PhD, Drexel University
Al-Bataineh, Anke; PhD, University Sorbonne, Paris
Allen, Elizabeth Hill; EdD, Argosy University
Allen-Pleasant, Christy Lynn; EdD, Grambling State University
Allison, Elizabeth Rowland; ABD, University of Alabama
Angelo, Helena Virginia; EdD, Wilmington University
Aranda, Christina L; MA, University of Utah
Aufderhaar, Carolyn Rachel; EdD, University of Cincinnati
Ballard, Patricia A; EdD, Argosy University
Barraza-Mancilla, Ruth Viviana; Doctorate Degree, William Howard Taft University
Bartlett, Jessica; EdD, Carson Newman University
Baxter, Marissa Elizabeth; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Betts, Anastasia Leigh; PhD, Regent University
Blanks, Dorothy E; PhD, University of Tennessee
Branan, Daniel Marland; PhD, University of Denver
Brogan, Lynnette Renz; EdD, Teachers College Columbia University
Brooks, Marlaina K; EdD, Texas A & M University Commerce
Butler-Likely, Tamira K; PhD, Washington University, St. Louis
Calkins, Erin; PhD, University of California, Santa Barbara
Carey, Kimberly Lynn; PhD, Northern Arizona University
Cartwright, Nancy; PhD, Gonzaga University
Celik, Rebecca Shapiro; PhD, University of California - Irvine
Cipolla, Christopher; PhD, Northwest Nazarene University
Clark, Shannon; MS, Southwest Baptist University
Cohen, Kimberly Anne; PhD, University of Iowa
Colaric, Susan; ABD, Pennsylvania State University
Comas, Jacqueline C; PhD, Indiana University
Corbin, David Hugh; EdS, Loyola University Chicago
Coury, Daniel Adam; PhD, University of Arizona
Czaplewski, John R; PhD, University of Minnesota
Davenport, Rebecca Arlene; MA, Western Governors University
Deckelmann, Miranda K; EdD, Northcentral University
Dees, Nancy; PhD, Regent University
DeFlorio, Reagan Elise; PhD, University of Illinois at Chicago
Derryberry, JohnMark; MD, University of Illinois at Chicago
Doiel, Patrick; EdD, NorthCentral University
Douglas, Deanna K; PhD, Wichita State University
Dudley, Michelle D; PhD, Grand Canyon University
Dukes, Debra; EdD, University of Georgia
Durakiewicz, Anna; MS, University of Marie Curie
Eisenhour, Melanie M; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Elledge, Amy Lyn; PhD, University of Virginia
Everett, Amy K; PhD, University of Alabama
Fay, Persis; EdD, California State University, Sacramento
Feather, Caitlin M; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Feng, Suiping; MA, City University of New York
Field, Kathleen D; PhD, Rutgers University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 186
Fillpot, Elise A; PhD, University of Iowa
Flavin, Kathryn; PhD, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Flores, Alberto M; EdD, Grand Canyon University
Francis, David S; MA, Western Governors University
Geiselhofer, Melissa A; EdD, Walden University
George, Randi Lee; EdD, Concordia University
Gibson, Diane; MEd, Arizona State University West
Giddens, Evelyn; PhD, Capella University
Gillman, Brenna; PhD, University of Utah
Gorgin, Elaheh; PhD, Michigan Technological University
Gray, Jennifer Leigh; ABD, Samford University
Hall, Robert J; PhD, Capella University
Hall, Tammy Lynne; EdD, Capella University
Halverson, Colleen Booker; PhD, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Harbin, Lesley C; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Harris, Lorena M; EdD, North Central University
Hayes, Heather F; EdD, University of Phoenix
Hedman, Shawn Christopher; PhD, University of Illinois Chicago
Henry, Joanna; MA, University of Phoenix
Hernandez, Angela Louise; ABD, Nova Southeastern
Hernandez, Julie; EdD, University of Phoenix
Hibbard, Brandon Lee; ABD, Eastern Kentucky University
Hiebel, Adam L; EdD, Ohio University
Homsi, Dana Steven Fields; PhD, University of Colorado
Hudon-Miller, Sarah E; PhD, Purdue University
Hughes, Amy; EdD, University of Montana
Hutson, Tommye L; EdD, Baylor University
Igbinoba-Cummings, Monique N; PhD, Lynn University
Izumi, Alisa; EdD, University Of Massachusetts
Jacobs, Patricia Anne; PhD, University of Florida
Janitzki, Dean; MA, Ashland University
Johnson, Sherri; PhD, Capella University
Kabara, Edward; PhD, Michigan State University
Kelly, Gretchen S; EdD, Walden University
Knapp-Witt, Amanda K; EdS, Marshall University
Kruger, Mary; EdD, Northcentral University
Leinbach, William; EdD, Oregon State University
Leonard, Carole; Doctorate Degree, Arkansas State University
Light, Kenneth M; PhD, Stanford University
Lindemann, Steven Robert; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Linkenhoker, Dina Louise; EdD, Liberty University
Lipscomb, Pauline Davis; EdD, University of the Cumberlands
Luster, Sandricia M; EdS, Argosy University
Machado, Cindy Louise; EdD, Oklahoma State University
Machuca, Alicia; PhD, University of Texas at Arlington
McCann, Brian Matthew; PhD, Mississippi State University
McCarver, Patricia; PhD, California Institute of Integral Studies
McDaniel, Maryann; EdD, University of Houston
McElhaney, Christine M; EdD, Liberty University
McGrath Hovland, Michelle; EdD, University of South Dakota
Meadows, Julie M; EdD, Walden University
Mendes, John; EdD, Argosy University
Mezzaroba, Anna M; EdD, University of Phoenix
Moore, Delmon Leo; EdD, Argosy University
Moore, Sara R; EdD, Wilkes University
Morgan, Matthew Earle; PhD, Montana State University
Mour, Jennifer L; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Murphy, Kyle A; PhD, Rutgers University
Murray, Mary Ann; EdS, Florida Atlantic University
Murray, Robert W; Doctorate Degree, Florida Atlantic University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 187
Neaville, Stacey Lynne; PhD, Walden University
Odom, M. Katherine; PhD, University of Alabama at Birmingham
O'Malley, Maureen Ann; PhD, University of Arizona
Pac, Rachel L; EdD, Walden University
Pack, Mamie L; PhD, Capella University
Parry, Kelly A; PhD, University of North Texas
Pederson, Obiamaka Obianyo; PhD, University of South Carolina
PeQueen, Carol; PhD, Keiser University
Przygrodzki, Robert L; PhD, Northern Illinois University
Purnell, Courtney; PhD, Florida Atlantic University
Quinn, Lori A; MEd, Prairie View A&M University
Rader, Klista; ABD, University of Kentucky
Rahsaz, Jacqueline; MA, University of California San Diego
Randonis, Jennifer L; PhD, Arizona State University
Rawson, Robert B; PhD, University of Texas
Remaly, Kristie; EdD, University of Phoenix
Reno, Anita; PhD, University of Texas Medical Branch
Ribbens, Teressa; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Richen, Damara A; EdS, Fielding Graduate University
Robidoux, Lorrance; PhD, Walden University
Robinson, Bryant K; PhD, Hope Bible Institute and Seminary
Robles, Veronica Vasquez; EdD, Arizona State University
Rogers, Carmelle Dara; PhD, Kansas State University
Russell, Nancy L; PhD, Ohio University
Rzyski, Megan E; Master Degree, Western Governors University
Sawyer, Ryann J; EdD, Argosy University
Schmidt, Stan; PhD, Brigham Young University
Sepetys, Peggy A; EdD, University of Michigan Dearborn
Shrader, Vincent; PhD, Brigham Young University
Silver, Jennifer W; PhD, New York University
Sims, Rachel Lynn; EdD, Walden University
Singleton, Lori; EdD, Clark Atlanta University
Smith, Andrea; EdD, The University of Georgia
Smith, Janeal Crane; PhD, Walden University
Spencer, Kristin; PhD, University of Florida
Story, Colleen D; PhD, Capella University
Stubblefield, Jessica Lee; PhD, University of Oklahoma
Swenson, Karl; PhD, Indiana University
Tash, Gina Gifford; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Thornsberry, Jeffrey C; ABD, William Woods University
Tiwari, Priti S; Doctorate Degree, Rutgers University New Brunswick
Torres y Torres, Janelle Lynn; PhD, The University of Iowa
Traub-Metlay, Suzanne G; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Tresnak, Robyn; PhD, Walden University
Tronstad, LaRae D; ABD, The University of Texas at Austin
Trumble, Brenda Gail; PhD, University of Texas
Turner, Carmen M; PhD, University of Memphis
Uribe, Samantha N; Doctorate Degree, Florida Atlantic University
Valentino, Cristina P; EdD, University of North Florida
Varley, Molly Kathleen Burnett; PhD, University of Montana
Vaughn, Monique Nicole; EdD, University of Phoenix
Vickers, Paul Kimball; EdD, Stephen F. Austin State University
Villena, Breanna M; EdD, Arizona State University
Wallender, Jennifer L; PhD, University of North Dakota
Walter-Sullivan, Earnestyne; PhD, Texas A&M University
Weaver, Rachel Maria; EdD, Concordia University
Weber, Stephanie S; EdD, Liberty University
Weinstein, Gideon; PhD, Indiana University Bloomington
Wilburn, Teresa; EdD, University of Sarasota
Willey-Rendon, Ruby Jo; PhD, Texas Tech University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 188
Winkelhake, Kelly Marie; EdD, Northeastern University
Wisnosky, Marc; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Woodly, Shaundau A; PhD, Capella University
Yanusheva, Lidiya; EdD, Walden University
Yatherajam, Gayatri; PhD, Colorado State University
Zimmerli, Mandy K; PhD, Iowa State University
College of Business
Adler Mandelbaum, Sara Elana; PhD, University of California, Santa Barbara
Adler, Kathleen; PhD, Southern Methodist University
Alafita, Theresa A; PhD, George Washington University
Ammons, David Neal; ABD, NorthCentral University
Anderson, Rebekah; ABD, Capella University
Arenz, Russell Austin; DM, Colorado Technical University
Argiento, Steven Ira; JD, Pace University School of Law
Austin, Judy; MBA, Western Governors University
Baksh, Andre Haroun; Doctorate Degree, University of Utah
Baraghoshi, Behroz; PhD, University of Utah
Barton, Robert D; EdS, Utah State University
Beckles, Lloyd; PhD, University of Central Florida
Beverley, Charles; PhD, University of South Carolina
Black, Hilda Marino; PhD, Louisiana Tech University
Borch, Casey; PhD, University of Connecticut
Borsum, Pamela A; MBA, Western Governors University
Brady, Melvin Mark; MBA, Westminster College
Brock, Suzanne Robke; DBA, Northcentral University
Butcher-Mitchell, Lu Trenze LuRie; DBA, Argosy University
Carr, Michael Wenderoth; JD, St. John's University
Carson, Pook; PhD, University of Utah
Cassell, Kenneth; MBA, San Jose State University
Cherry, Patricia; PhD, Capella University
Connor, Martin J; JD, University of North Dakota
Coombs, Richard W; MBA, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Cousar, Regina Dobson; EdD, Northeastern University
Davis, Lorretta; PhD, Capella University
Davis, Mary Jo; EdD, Central Michigan University
DePinto, Ross Martin; PhD, Capella University
Dickinson, Christine M; Master Degree, Purdue University
Doren, Andrew Thomas; DM, University of Maryland University College
Dorman, Brigham; Doctorate Degree, Texas Tech University
Doyle, Michael Patrick; PhD, Kent State University
Dunston, Stephanie; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Duran, Anthony W; MBA, Northcentral University
Ennis, Erica Amy; JD, Quinnipiac University School of Law
Etter, Edwin R; PhD, Ohio State University
Ferber, Bruce; MBA, George Washington University
Fisher, Paul; PhD, Oregon State University
Franciosa, Norma V; MBA, Monmouth University
Gallo, Merry Jo; DBA, Argosy University
Gamble, Erica D; DM, University of Phoenix
Gardner, Diana L; MBA, Western Governors University
Garland, Jennifer Jensen; DBA, Keiser University
Gilyot, Bianca; DBA, Columbia Southern University
Giscombe, Hilbert L; DBA, Argosy University
Goegan, Brian; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois at Chicago
Gunn, Linda; PhD, Union Institute and University
Harding, Stephen; MBA, Iona College
Hartzog, Benjamin G; PhD, University of Alabama
Havins, Merwin Hugh; EdD, Northern Arizona University
Haynes, Eduardo T; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 189
Haywood, Derrick; DBA, Walden University
Heinzman, Joseph Robert; DM, Colorado Technical University
Hewlett, Roderic; DA, Middle Tennessee State University
Hon, Charles Michael; PhD, Capella University
Hoskins, Melody; MBA, Texas Tech University
Hudson, Brandi O; JD, Regent University
Iannucci, Brian Arthur; PhD, Northcentral University
Imboden, Paul Francis; ABD, Northcentral University
Jane, Courtney; ABD, Argosy University
Jividen, Jim; JD, Ohio Northern University
Jones, Alan K; MBA, Amos Tuck School Dartmouth College
Justice, Jeanne L; DBA, Walden University
Kale, Mrinalini D; PhD, Capella University
Kowalski, Christine; EdD, Carlow University
Krisuk, Jennifer J; PhD, University of Tulsa
Kushniroff, Melinda; EdD, Liberty University
Lagroue, Harold J; PhD, Louisiana State University
Lamer, Maryann; PhD, Oklahoma State University
Leary, Maureen; PhD, Northcentral University
Leschke, John P; PhD, University of Virginia
Leshinski, Dianne L; MBA, University of Dayton
Light, Geraldine B; ABD, Walden University
Logan, Junius R; MD, Ohio State University
Lowder-Haastrup, Janita; PhD, Capella University
Lucas, Patrick H; JD, Vanderbilt University
Lutter-Cooper, Victoria Alice; PhD, Capella University
Magwood-Golston, Jametta S; PhD, University of South Carolina
Manners, Amanda; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Marinelli, Kelly; ABD, University of Colorado Boulder
Mays Yahl, Ashley; PhD, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
McCleskey, Jamie Allen; PhD, Capella University
McKay, Christina R C; ABD, University of Baltimore School of Law
Melton, Rebecca M; PhD, Chicago School of Professional Psychology
Metzger, Christopher Noel; PhD, University of South Florida
Meyer, Elin; Doctorate Degree, Case Western Reserve University
Mikaelian, Douglas A; MS, Nova Southeastern University
Miller, Kimberly Kay; EdD, University of St. Francis
Miller, Lori R; LLM, New York University
Miller, Tate; PhD, Trident University International
Mills, Colleen; PhD, Capella University
Mitterer, Dennis M; PhD, Walden University
Moore, Detria L; JD, Liberty University School of Law
Morgan, Patricia Ann Belhassen; ABD, University of Phoenix
Neely, Cecil Alexander; MBA, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Nelms, Linda; PhD, Capella University
Nelson, Camille; PhD, Gonzaga University
Newport-Conklin, Laurie E; MBA, Fordham University
O'Brien, Joseph Paul; EdD, George Washington University
Owusu-Nyamekye, Dwobeng; Master Degree, Ohio Dominican University
Parks, Ashley V; DrPH, University of California, Los Angeles
Pawarski, Richard Chester; PhD, Northcentral University
Phillips, Patti Linn; JD, Stetson University College of Law
Pineda, Antonio J; PhD, VPISU Virginia Tech
Powell, Walfyette; ABD, Northcentral University
Ramlall, Sunil; PhD, University of Minnesota
Reymore, Marie; PhD, University of Georgia
Reynolds, Noel Robert; PhD, University of South Florida
Richmond, Jennifer L; PhD, Duquesne University
Roberts, Kenny Warren; PhD, Walden University
Roberts, Tracia L; MBA/MS, University of Phoenix
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 190
Roberts, Wade; PhD, University of Utah
Rogers, Katie; MBA, University of Utah
Rosen, Beverly Carroll; ABD, Gardner-Webb University
Ross, Derrick; DBA, Nottingham Trent University
Rotelli, Sheila M; PhD, Benedictine University
Rupert, Malcolm Edward; Doctorate Degree, University of Idaho
Salisbury, JoDee; PhD, Capella University
SanPietro, Frank J; ABD, University of Memphis
Scherer, Joel A; DBA, Northcentral University
Scutro, Rebecca L; MS, St. Joseph's University
Sexton, Nathan Lee; Doctorate Degree, University of LaVerne
Shah, Robin; MBA, Keller Graduate School of Management
Sheeler, Amber D; MS, East Carolina University
Shepherd, Tracie; PhD, Northcentral University
Sidney, Carl Stephane; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Skinner, Susan; JD, Tulane University
Skirvin, Stacy L; PhD, Capella University
Smith, Anastasia; ABD, University of South Florida
Snipes, Dawna E; JD, Western Michigan University
Souder, Michele Rae; MBA, University of Dayton
Stewart, Michelle R; DHA, University of Phoenix
Strickland, Cynthia; PhD, Trident University
Swarthout, Nanette M; MBA, Fontbonne University
Syler, Floran; PhD, Mercer University
Tennessee, Ashley M; DHA, Medical University of South Carolina
Thompson, Christopher; PhD, University of Cambridge
Tiyamiyu, Ayodeji O; Master Degree, Alabama University
Troutman, John A; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University Atlanta
Venkateswar, Sankaran; PhD, University of Georgia
Wachter, Eddie Ray; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Wade, Keith; DBA, Argosy University
Walker, Roblena E; PhD, Walden University
Wang, Xiaofei; PhD, University of Kentucky
Whisler, Ryan Douglas; DBA, Anderson University
Wilhelm, Sarah; PhD, University of Utah
Williams, Jocelyn; EdD
Williams, Pegeen; JD, Quinnipiac University School of Law
Williams, Rian; MPA, University of Utah
Wolfe, Kristen M; Master Degree, University of North Florida
Zonghetti, Beth; DBA, University of Phoenix
College of Information Technology
Alberici, Mary; PhD, University of Missouri
Al-Husaam, Abdul Kariym; PhD, Capella University
Allen, Candice; MS, Capella University
Angeloni, Lynette Marie; PhD, Capella University
Antonucci, Amy E; MS, University of Delaware
Barnhart, Joseph Karl; PhD, Texas A&M University
Bishop, David Wayne; MS, DeVry University
Blanson, Constance D; PhD, Capella University
Bojonny, John S; MS, Marywood University
Burwick, Wanda D; ABD, University of Phoenix
Cameron, David Gerald; MS, Naval Postgraduate School
Campbell, Wendy; DBA, Northcentral University
Carter, Betty Rosetta; ABD, Capella University
Christiansen, Eric Alan; MS, American Public University System
Cobbs, Dana M.J.; MS, The College of William & Mary
Cogley, Charles Zachary; PhD, The Ohio State University
Cook, Henry Wesley; MS, Clark Atlanta University
Crawford, Demetria K; ABD, Capella University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 191
Davis, John R; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Davis, Lori R; Master Degree, Western Governors University
DeSot, Julie A; DM, University of Maryland University College
Dill, Shawn L; Master Degree, Western Governors University
Dumas, Tony; MS, DeVry University
Dupree, Yolanda; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Elchouemi, Amr; PhD, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Elias, Nilsa I; PhD, Capella University
Escobar, Alvaro; PhD, Florida Atlantic University
Evans, Derrick; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Farmer, Jaynee Linkous; MA, University of Arkansas Little Rock
Ferdinand, Jeff; MS, Trident University
Garza, Brian Kenneth; MS, Western Governors University
Geiser, Jerry; MBA, Western Governors University
Goodwin, Orenthio Kinard; PhD, Capella University
Hallock, Melissa; Master Degree, Phoenix University
Heiner, Jenny; MS, Capitol College
Huff, David; PhD, Wayne State University
Jakes, Jackie; Master Degree, Western Governors University
Jensen, Bryan; ABD, Northcentral University
Jordan, Michael B; MBA, Webster University
Keck, Philip Henry; MS, Keller Graduate School of Management
Kendricks, Justin Aubrey; MBA, Davenport University
Kercher, Paul D; MS, University of Missouri
Kocher, Austin; PhD, The Ohio State University
Koelsch, Jane-Marie F; EdD, Walden University
Kovacic, Rick; Master Degree, California State University
Levy, Cornel L; PhD, Capella University
Linnert, Erin; Master Degree, University of Central Florida
Lively, Charles W; PhD, Texas A&M University
McFarlane, Michele A; MS, Keller Graduate School of Management
McLaughlin, Michael; MS, University of Maine
McReynolds, Kevin V; PhD, Capella University
Mendell, Ronald Leonard; MS, Capitol College
Miko, Jeffrey Allen; DIT, Walden University
Milham, Thomas Orazio; MBA, Garvin School of International Management
Moore, Ronald Michael; PhD, Troy University
Morrill, Ralph Daniel; ABD, Northcentral University
Muhammad, Basil David; ABD, University of Phoenix
Ntinglet, Emelda; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Paddock, Charles; PhD, University of Houston
Pinaire, Kenneth Dale; DSc, Dakota State University
Provost, Lauren E; PhD, University of New Hampshire
Rawlinson, Davey R; JD, South Texas College of Law
Rogers, Gary S; PhD, Walden University
Rutledge, Randy A; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Schaefer, Brett M; MBA, Keller Graduate School of Management
Schenk, Maria; MS, City University
Sewell, William E; PhD, University of Houston
Sher-DeCusatis, Carolyn J; DPS, Pace University
Shields, Jessica; MFA, Savannah College of Art & Design
Sinanovic, Sladan; PhD, Northcentral University
Sistelos, Antonio Jose; PhD, Indiana State University
Spiller, Jerry Matthew; Master Degree, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Swanson, Tom Carl; PhD, Capella University
Vaughn, Brandon Keith; PhD, Florida State University
Wabara, Malcolm Alozie; MS, Pace University
Weidner, Thomas G; MS, Ohio State University
Williams, Michelle; MS, Union University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 192
College of Health Professions
Abdur-Rahman, Veronica; PhD, Teachers College Columbia University
Abee, Debra; MS, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Abraham, Gail; MS/ED, University of Phoenix
Alley, Kati; MS, West Texas A&M University
Alpert, Patricia; Doctorate Degree, Loma Linda University
Austgen, Donna; MS, University of Indianapolis
Averyheart-Latham, Amanda M; MS, Grand Canyon University
Babela, Jane Annyce; MS, University of North Carolina
Bailey, Elizabeth J; Master Degree, Indiana Wesleyan University
Barber, Kendra; MS, Indiana University
Basinger, Michael Andrew; DNP, University of Nevada, Las Vegas
Bearry, Brian; PhD, University of North Texas
Benson, Johnett M; DNP, Kent State University
Berson, Lindsey Marie; DNP, Frontier Nursing University
Blaine, Stephanie A; PhD, Capella University
Bockheim, Elizabeth Dario; MS, Ball State University
Brophy, Barbara; DNP, Chamberlain University
Brown, Brandy L; MS, Vanderilt University
Brown, Sharon; PhD, University of Phoenix
Burrichter, Vicki Lynne; DMA, University of Northern Colorado
Butler, Eve Winieckie; Doctorate Degree, Barry University
Cain, Lyn; PhD, Grand Canyon University
Cantey, Sherri Williams; PhD, The University of Southern Mississippi
Carey, Emily A; Master Degree, Chamberlain College of Nursing
Carlisle, Reginald; BA, Weber State University
Cleveland, Melissa Patton; DNP, Rocky Mountain University of Health Professions
Cloonan, Kelly J; DNP, University of Phoenix
Croson, Elizabeth; Master Degree, Wheeling Jesuit University
Cureton, Sara; MA, Gonzaga University
Curtis, Natasha; DNP, Grand Canyon University
Dahdal, Kimberly A; MS, Western Governors University
Dailey, Elizabeth A; DNP, Chamberlain College of Nursing
Dampeer-Moore, Jodi; EdD, Delaware State University
Dantzler, Barbara; PhD, Trident University
Diaz, Constance Ann; PhD, University of Wyoming
Diaz, Lorna Brillantes; DNP, Western University of Health Sciences
Dillard, Deborah J; PhD, University of Phoenix
Djousse, Sylvie; DNP, MGH Institute Of Health Professions
Donaway, Deanne M; PhD, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Dorin, Michelle D; PhD, University of Missouri St. Louis
Edge, Denise S; DNP, Samford University
Elmer, Justine J; MS, Kaplan University
Escobedo, Tina; ABD, Western University of Health Sciences
Falsetta, Joanne Olive; Doctorate Degree, Touro University
Feather, Rebecca A; PhD, Indiana University
Fischer, James P; DNP, University of Pittsburgh
Forbes, Amy Kirsten; PhD, South Dakota Sate University
Garrett, Janette Yvonne; MBA, University of Phoenix
Gatzemeier, Kallie L; DNP, Graceland University
Gaut, Marcus M; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
Gianino, Krista; Master Degree, University of Phoenix
Gogatz, Debra Tolley; DNP, Regis University
Golden, Christina J; MS, University of Phoenix
Gordy, Elizabeth Shawn; MS, South University
Gottesfeld, Ilene B; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Gwyn, Elizabeth Smith; MS, Winston Salem State University
Hadsell, Christine A; PhD, University of Kansas
Hall, Kevin D; MA, University of Phoenix
Hall, Molly Jeanne; Master Degree, American Sentinel University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 193
Halpin, Michelle; DNP, University of Alabama
Hamilton, Cam Annette; PhD, Auburn University
Hanna, Henrietta Helena; PhD, Barry University
Hannon, Wendy J; DNP, Chatham University
Harris, Anita Lynn; ABD, Chamberlain University
Harris, Meagan Alyssa; Doctorate Degree, Texas A&M University
Hartenstein, Heidi Ruth; MSN, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
Hartley-Clanton, Patricia; MS, University of Utah
Hawkinson, Julie A; PhD, University of South Dakota
Hernandez, Ali; MMPA, University of Phoenix
Hernandez, Emily; Master Degree, Masters of Science in Nursing
Heyer-Schmidt, Theresa-Anne; DNP, University of Colorado
Hicks, Katherine Sue; PhD, University of Oklahoma, Tulsa
Hindenlang, Beverly Jean; Doctorate Degree, Case Western Reserve University
Hodson, Kristy; MS, Utah State University
Hoffer, Sallieann B; PhD, Andrews University
Hoggle, Jasmine Lee; DNP, University of Alabama
Johnson, Jasmin Aysha; DBA, Oklahoma State University
Johnson, Lydia; Doctorate Degree, University of Kansas Medical Center
Johnson-Anderson, Heidi; EdD, University of South Dakota
Jones, Malena; PhD, SUNY at Buffalo
Jones, Patricia Lynn; MHA/MBA, University of Phoenix & Grand Canyon University
Josepher, Leah; MEd, Colorado State University
Judge, Deborah Sue; DNP, University of Southern Indiana
Kangas, Sandra Hageman; PhD, Georgia State University
Kell, Tracey C; MA, The University of Alabama
King, Ellen L; ABD, American Sentinel University
Kohring, Laurie Julia Lee; DNP, University of Colorado
LaMar, Ruth Ann; DNP, Indiana University
Langer Atkinson, Heidi; PhD, University of Albany
Lashlee, Marilyn; DNP, Lehman College
Lewis, Judith H; ABD, University Of Cincinnati
Linville, Lisa Jane; DNS, Louisiana State University
Long, Jennifer L; MS, Indiana University
Luna, Nadia; Doctorate Degree, Duke University
Lyden, Erin Jessica; MEd, Northern Arizona University
Manigold, Roschelle; DNP, Marquette University
Manning, Stacy A; DNP, California State University
Marshall, Janet G; PhD, Rush University
Martin, Kelly A; PhD, Capella University
Martin, Vicki; PhD, Virginia Tech
Masterson, Debra; EdD, Liberty University
McCombs, Darlene G; DNP, University of Alabama
McNally, Leah K; Master Degree, University of Minnesota
Miller, Michele L; MS, Albany State University
Montoya, Karen; DNP, University of Cincinnati
Morrison, Victoria J; PhD, University of Massachusetts, Boston
Murray, Reinette Powers; DNP, Oakland University
Nmezi, Murphy; MD, University of Vienna
Northrup, Dolores K; MS, Western Governors University
Pallotto-Russo, Linda-Jo; EdD, University of Hartford
Parker, Bonnie Jean; Master Degree, Marymount University
Parsons, Melody Joy; MS, American Sentinel University
Peacock, Kyle Joseph; DM, University of Phoenix
Pearce, Margaret M; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Perez, Susan A; DNP, Chatham University
Peters, Tamara Jaacks; MS, Walden University
Phillips, Dedra; MA, Colorado Technical University
Priode, Kimberly Slone; ABD, East Carolina University
Pritchard, Paula Courtney; PhD, University of Phoenix
Queen, Jo; PhD, University of Texas
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 194
Querales, Carolyn M; DNP, University of Minnesota Minneapolis
Randall, Rebecca; EdD, University of South Dakota
Redden, Cameron; MA, Baldwin-Wallace College
Reid, Rachel; DNP, Rush University
Reyes, Terri; Doctorate Degree, University of St. Francis, Joliet, IL
Royal, Polly Ann; DNP, Purdue University
Sauls, John; MS, Western Governors University
Scarpena, Jennifer Anne; DHEd, AT Still University
Schmitt, Kellie; MS, Drexel University
Schneider, Alisa L; PhD, Oregon State University
Schreffler, Karen R; DNP, Carlow University
Scott, Angela; MS, Walden University
Shaw Hoopingarner, Diana; DNP, Regis University
Simmons, Laura Owens; PhD, University of Memphis
Sinatra-Wilhelm, Tina; DNP, Chatham University
Sizemore, Mary C; MS, Indiana Wesleyan University
Sloger, Jane Mitzner; MS, Northern Illinois University
Standring, Jaclyn Ventimiglia; DNP, Vanderbilt University
Starkey, Traci J; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Steele, Kamala; DNP, American Sentinel University
Steighner-Ondik, Tammy Rose; ABD, Capella University
Stubblefield, Angelique Marie; PhD, Case Western Reserve University
Sunderhaus, Patricia Irene; EdD, Argosy University
Sweeney Fee, Sharon K; PhD, University of Arizona
Tarantino, Philip C; PhD, LaSalle University
Tice-Harouff, Cami Jo; ABD, Capella University
Trainor, Leia F; ABD, American Sentinel University
Trenholm, Robert Michael; Doctorate Degree, University of North Florida
Urquhart, Katherine M; PhD, Capella University
Von Holden, Sophia E; PhD, University of Houston
Waltrip, Kimberly Dawn; ABD, University of Missouri
Washington, Patrick Lynn; DHEd, A.T. Still University
Welch, Colleen M; MS, University of Kentucky
Widener, Jeanne Malcom; PhD, Ohio State University
Wilkey, Trina; Master Degree, Ball State University
Williams, Deborah J; MS, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Williams, Latiena; Doctorate Degree, South University
Williams, Nisa K; Master Degree, Wilmington University
Williams-Fultz, Rosie; PhD, William Carey University
Withers, Gail L; DNP, University of Kansas
Workman, JoEllen Joy; DBA, Wilmington University
Wyszynski, Connie; DNP, Rush University
Yoose, Cora; PhD, Florida International University
© Western Governors University Mar 21, 2019 195
