Institutional Catalog
Western Governors University
2022 University Catalog
Volume MMXXII, No. 1
January 2022
Undergraduate and Graduate Programs
Teachers College
College of Business
College of Information Technology
College of Health Professions
The electronic catalog—the WGU public website—is available at any time by accessing the following URL:
www.wgu.edu
The print version of this catalog for students and prospective students may be requested by sending an email to the
Student Records department at records@wgu.edu.
Disclaimer: All information in this catalog is provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute a legal
contract between Western Governors University and any person or entity unless otherwise specified. Information in this
catalog is subject to change without prior notice. Although every reasonable effort is made to present current and
accurate information, Western Governors University makes no guarantees of any kind.
Western Governors University Corporation
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
Toll Free: 866.225.5948
Local Phone: 801.274.3280
Fax: 801.274.3305
info@wgu.edu
www.wgu.edu
Table of Contents
About Western Governors University 5
Admissions 12
State Regulatory Information 19
Tuition and Financial Aid 22
Academic Policies 29
Academic Programs 44
College of Business Programs 46
B.S. Business Administration - Accounting 47
B.S. Business Administration - Healthcare Management 49
B.S. Business Administration - Human Resource Management 51
B.S. Business Administration - Information Technology Management 53
B.S. Business Administration - Management 55
B.S. Business Administration - Marketing 57
Master of Business Administration 59
MBA Information Technology Management 60
MBA Healthcare Management 61
M.S. Management and Leadership 62
M.S. Accounting 63
College of Health Professions Programs 64
B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) 65
B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN) 67
B.S. Health Information Management 68
B.S. Health Services Coordination 70
M.S. Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner 72
M.S. Nursing - Education 73
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management 74
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics 75
M.S. Nursing - Education (RN to MSN) 76
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN) 78
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN) 80
Master of Health Leadership 82
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Education 83
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management 84
College of Information Technology Programs 85
B.S. Cloud Computing 86
B.S. Computer Science 88
B.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 90
B.S. Data Management/Data Analytics 92
B.S. Information Technology 94
B.S. Network Operations and Security 96
B.S. Software Development 98
M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 100
M.S. Data Analytics 101
M.S. Information Technology Management 102
Teachers College Programs 103
B.A. Elementary Education 105
B.A. Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure) 107
B.A. Special Education (Mild to Moderate) 109
B.S. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) 111
B.S. Mathematics Education (Secondary) 113
B.S. Science Education (Middle Grades) 115
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) 117
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) 119
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) 121
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Physics) 123
M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education 125
M.A. Teaching, English Education (Secondary) 126
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) 127
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary) 128
M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary) 129
M.A. Teaching, Special Education 130
M.S. Curriculum and Instruction 132
M.S. Educational Leadership 133
M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12) 134
M.Ed. Instructional Design 135
M.Ed. Learning and Technology 136
M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6) 137
M.A. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) 138
M.A. Mathematics Education (Secondary) 139
M.A. Science Education (Middle Grades) 140
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) 141
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) 142
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) 143
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Physics) 144
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12) 145
Course Descriptions 146
Instructor Directory 191
About Western Governors University
Why are we called Western Governors University? Our name tells the story of our founding—a story that dates back to
1997, when a group of U.S. governors came up with an innovative answer to a question of growing concern: How can
we ensure more of our residents have greater access to a college education that fits their schedule? That meeting of the
Western Governors' Association marked the beginnings of a new national university.
From the beginning, we were designed to be different. The U.S. governors who founded WGU knew that the college
student of the 21st century would be very different from students in the past. For millions of working adults, the dream of
pursuing a college education could only become a reality once the boundaries of time and place could be removed.
Overcoming this challenge was at the heart of the WGU idea.
It was the mid-1990s, and a new technology was quickly emerging: the internet. As more and more Americans were
able to get online, the possibility of an “anywhere, anytime” education became a reality. And more than simply delivering
traditional, lecture-based learning via modem and monitor, our founders recognized that technology could be used to
fundamentally change the way college students learn. Harnessing the power of the internet and our innovative new
learning model—competency-based education—WGU revolutionized the way students learn, master concepts, and
progress to a degree.
As a nonprofit, online university founded by governors, WGU is different. But even beyond the unique story of our
founding and the foresight of our founders, WGU is different for a more fundamental reason: We do education
differently.
WGU is mission-driven. Created to expand access to higher education through online, competency-based degree
programs, WGU’s mission has remained one of helping hardworking adults meet their educational goals and improve
their career opportunities. Our mission is to change lives for the better by creating pathways to opportunity.
Competency-Based Education
Colleges and universities traditionally require attendance in a classroom, conferring degrees based on completion of a
certain set of courses for a given number of credit hours. As an online institution that provides its students the
convenience of studying and completing coursework outside the classroom, WGU provides competency-based courses
to complete its degree and non-degree requirements. Competency-based programs allow students to demonstrate that
they have acquired the competencies (levels of knowledge, skill, or ability) required for a particular degree or certificate.
Students have often acquired many of the skills necessary for a degree through life or work experience. WGU’s system
enables students to utilize previously learned skills in proving their competencies.
A team of faculty have identified the required competencies for each program offered at WGU. Competencies
summarize the critical knowledge and skill levels essential for mastery of a particular field. WGU students demonstrate
mastery of competencies by completing assessments. An assessment may be a test, a project, an essay, or another
practical demonstration of a required skill. Therefore, assessments might look like:
● Assignments involving problem-solving in science or information technology.
● Computerized math examinations consisting of multiple-choice, matching, and other question types.
● Projects requiring the student to design a lesson plan about American history.
● Reflection essays about case studies.
● Research papers on particular topics within the student’s field.
Each assessment measures knowledge and skill in a given area through appropriate means. Assessments are
developed using a rigorous process that conforms to professional testing standards. This process yields high-quality
exams, reliable results, and supports valid conclusions about each student’s level of competence. Students can be
confident that all their assessments, whether computerized exams or performance tasks, align to and demonstrate
specific competencies in their individual degree programs.
Accreditation
Accreditation provides external, expert evaluation of WGU’s programs and policies, eases the transfer of credits to other
accredited institutions, and legitimizes degree credentials for employers and colleges.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 5
NWCCU
Western Governors University is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Accreditation of
an institution of higher education by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities indicates that it meets or
exceeds criteria for the assessment of institutional quality evaluated through a peer review process. An accredited
college or university is one which has available the necessary resources to achieve its stated purposes through
appropriate educational programs, is substantially doing so, and gives reasonable evidence that it will continue to do so
in the foreseeable future. Institutional integrity is also addressed through accreditation. Accreditation by the Northwest
Commission on Colleges and Universities is not partial but applies to the institution as a whole. As such, it is not a
guarantee of every course or program offered, or the competence of individual graduates. Rather, it provides reasonable
assurance about the quality of opportunities available to students who attend the institution. Inquiries regarding an
institution’s accredited status by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities should be directed to the
administrative staff of the institution. Individuals may also contact: Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities;
8060 165th Avenue NE, Suite 100; Redmond, WA 98052; (425) 558-4224; www.nwccu.org.
CAEP
The Teachers College at Western Governors University has been granted advanced-level accreditation (effective fall
2021 to fall 2025) from CAEP, the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation; 1140 19th St NW, Suite 400;
Washington, DC 20036; (202) 223-0077.
AAQEP
The teacher licensure programs offered through the WGU Teachers College have been awarded accreditation by the
Association for Advancing Quality in Educator Preparation (AAQEP) through June 30, 2026. Accreditation
acknowledges that a program prepares effective educators who continue to grow as professionals and that the program
has demonstrated the commitment and capacity to continue to do so.
CCNE
The baccalaureate degree programs in nursing and master's degree programs in nursing at Western Governors
University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education; 655 K Street NW, Suite 750;
Washington, DC 20001; (202) 887-6791; http://www.ccneaccreditation.org.
CAHIIM
The Health Information Management accreditor of Western Governors University is the Commission on Accreditation for
Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). The College’s accreditation for the baccalaureate
degree in health information management has been reaffirmed through 2023. All inquiries about the program’s
accreditation status should be directed by mail to CAHIIM; 200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100; Chicago, IL 60601; by
phone at (312) 235-3255; or by email at info@cahiim.org.
ACBSP
The baccalaureate and master’s degree programs offered by the College of Business at Western Governors University
are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP); 11520 W 199th St; Overland
Park, KS 66213; (913) 339-9356.
University Governance
WGU is governed by the Board of Trustees consisting of educators, industry leaders, and state governors. In addition,
WGU continues to draw support (without state appropriations) from the governors of the member states that were
instrumental in the founding of WGU.
The following link provides information about the Board of Trustees, National Advisory Board, and other university
officials: https://www.wgu.edu/about/university-governance.html
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 6
Board of Trustees
Dr. Charles Sorenson, Chairman Talia Milgrom-Elcott
President and CEO Emeritus Co-Founder and Executive Director
Intermountain Healthcare 100Kin10
John W. Bluford III The Honorable Jared Polis
President Governor
Bluford Healthcare Leadership Institute State of Colorado
Cole Clark Scott D. Pulsipher
Managing Director, Higher Education Client Relations President
Deloitte Services, LP Western Governors University
Joseph B. Fuller David Simmons
Professor of Management Practice President
Harvard Business School Simmons Media Group
The Honorable Jim Geringer Dr. Samuel H. Smith
Director, Policy & Public Sector, ESRI President Emeritus
Former Governor of Wyoming Washington State University
The Honorable Eric Holcomb Lenny Mendonca
Governor Former Chief Economic and Business Advisor
State of Indiana Governor of California
Tammy Johns Jessie Woolley-Wilson
CEO CEO and President
Strategy & Talent DreamBox Learning
University Leadership Council
Scott D. Pulsipher Bob Hunt
President and Chief Executive Officer Senior VP and General Counsel
Bonnie Pattee David Grow
Senior VP, People & Talent Chief Operating Officer
David Morales Marni Baker Stein
Senior VP of Technology and CIO Provost and Chief Academic Officer
Wesley Smith Debbie Fowler
Senior VP of Policy and Public Affairs Senior VP of Student Success
Gene Hayes Mitsu Phillips
Senior VP, Regional Operations Senior VP, College of Business
Mark Milliron Jan Jones-Schenk
Senior VP, Teachers College Senior VP, College of Health Professions
Ashutosh Tiwary Annalisa Holcombe
Senior VP, College of Information Technology President, WGU Advancement
David Perkinson Jason Levin
Senior VP, Program Development Executive Director, WGU LABS
Chris Lee
President, WGU Academy
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 7
Academic Program Governance
Academic programs are developed and guided by WGU administrators working through several councils comprised of
academicians and industry experts in the various fields of knowledge. Each programmatic area (e.g., undergraduate
nursing, initial licensure for teaching) has a program council which is the faculty governing body for the degree or non-
degree program. Program councils, along with the program coordinator, are responsible for overseeing the development
of the curriculum (including competence descriptions, subdomains, and domains), overseeing all assessments, and
updating the curriculum.
In addition to program councils, an Assessment Council is responsible for working with program leaders, assessment
development vendors, and WGU assessment staff to ensure that WGU’s assessments are appropriate tests of the
competencies identified by the program leaders.
For a listing of members of each Council, see https://www.wgu.edu/about/university-governance.html.
Faculty Composition
WGU employs a disaggregated faculty model across the university. The aggregated roles and tasks performed by
traditional university professors (e.g., meeting with and advising students, course or curriculum design, instruction,
assessment) are distributed among faculty members. Consequently, the jobs of individual WGU faculty members focus
on single aspects of the academic experience, and students are supported by a team of faculty. Within WGU, there are
several faculty roles and associated tasks:
Assessment Faculty – An individual with expertise in assessment theory and practice who is responsible for the design,
development, and continuous improvement of assessments that support a competency-based curriculum in accordance
with industry best practices.
Curriculum Faculty – An individual with expertise in curriculum theory and practice who is responsible for the design,
development, and evaluation of competency-based curricula to provide relevant, robust learning experiences.
Clinical Faculty – Professional experts who provide clinical instruction and evaluation to students in individual or group
settings to support students in meeting the practice requirements for licensure.
Instructors – Subject-matter experts who provide direct instruction to students in individual and/or group settings, and
who are responsible for providing course-specific student support that is effective, engaging, and appropriately
personalized.
Program Mentors – An individual with professional or domain expertise in program competencies who provides
academic guidance and personalized programmatic instruction and support to students.
Evaluators – Subject matter experts responsible for providing robust, personalized feedback on performance
assessments and evaluating student competency.
Faculty Leaders – Individuals with academic or professional expertise who manage teams of faculty and are
accountable for ensuring faculty provide timely, appropriately personalized student instruction or support that develops
student competency and supports student success. Faculty leaders are responsible for collaborating with Program
Chairs to make academic decisions that ensure program quality and strong student outcomes.
Honorary Faculty – An individual who is a recognized expert, nationally or internationally renowned in their field, or a
highly reputed scholar in their field and is thereby, uniquely qualified based on exceptional academic or professional
expertise. Honorary faculty may not necessarily meet stated minimum qualifications for other faculty positions.
Program Chairs – An individual with academic or professional expertise in the program domain who is accountable for
the integrity, excellence, national reputation, and continuous improvement of a portfolio of relevant educational
programs through leadership, innovation, fiscal efficiency, partnerships, and the advancement of the discipline. This
administrative faculty person is accountable for the quality, relevance, and performance of one or more academic
programs. Chairs are responsible for the financial, academic, and reputational health of the program(s) they lead and
work closely with faculty leaders to produce strong student outcomes.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 8
Academic Calendar
The traditional academic calendar with limited enrollment periods, holidays, and other significant dates is not applicable.
In WGU’s continuous-enrollment model, new groups of degree-seeking students start on the first day of every month.
Students can access learning resources, schedule assessments, and complete performance assessments anytime.
WGU’s academic calendar divides a student’s academic year into two, six-month semesters called “terms.” The six
months that make up a term are based on when the student begins the program. For example, if a student begins the
program on February 1, the first term will last from February 1 through July 31. The second term would begin August 1.
Learning Resources
WGU students use a variety of learning resources, included in the cost of attendance, to acquire the skills and
knowledge needed to complete assessments. These learning resources come in a variety of forms (e.g., e-textbooks,
web-based tutorials, simulations, online labs).
Student Services
Students enrolling at WGU become part of our community of faculty and staff who are united under one goal: student
success. The Student Services office is available during extended hours to assist students with general questions and
administrative or accessibility issues. The Student Services team helps students resolve issues, listens to student issues
and concerns, and makes recommendations for improving policy and practice based on student feedback. The Student
Services team provides a formal means by which students can express their views, and those views in turn inform the
decisions we make.
The Student Services team assists students with unresolved concerns to find equitable resolutions. Prior to contacting
the Student Services office with a complaint, students should work with their Program Mentor. Mentors have the
expertise to guide students toward goals and direct them to resources to be successful. If, however, students have an
issue or problem that cannot be resolved by their Program Mentor, they are invited to contact the Student Services
office. Student Services can also assist students who wish to request to be assigned to a different Program Mentor.
To contact the Student Services team, please call 877.435.7948 or email studentservices@wgu.edu. Representatives
are available Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and Saturday from 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed Sunday).
Financial Services
WGU’s award-winning Financial Services team guides students through the process of paying for their educational
journeys. The Financial Aid Office can be reached by email at financialservices@wgu.edu or by calling 877.435.7948.
Hours of operation are weekdays 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed on weekends).
Service Desk
WGU’s Service Desk is available to help students resolve any technology problem by calling 877.435.7948 or emailing
servicedesk@wgu.edu. The Service Desk is open Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and from 10 AM to 7
PM MT on Saturday and Sunday.
Student Wellness
WGU offers each student WellConnect™, a free, voluntary, and confidential service which offers counseling and support
services to students. WellConnect™ provides support with a live clinician by phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Due
to WGU’s online presence and lack of a physical campus, the WellConnect student assistance program constitutes the
extent of healthcare services available to WGU students.
Commencement
WGU hosts virtual and live commencement weekends over the course of the year, with new cities and events each year.
WGU’s Alumni Relations team provides these opportunities for students, graduates, and families to come together to
celebrate their accomplishments and achievements. Visit www.wgu.edu/commencement for details.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 9
Alumni Engagement
WGU’s Alumni Community of graduates is quickly growing. To help support these graduates, the Alumni Engagement
team is constantly seeking new ways to provide alumni with the tools and resources they need to succeed in the next
phase of their lives. Graduates have free access to these tools and resources on the alumni community website:
www.wgu.edu/alumni.
Connect with other graduates using WGU’s Night Owl Network, a state-of-the-art networking platform developed
specifically for fostering mentorship experiences, or the WGU Alumni LinkedIn Group. These are both closed groups, as
graduates and students must request to be added as a member.
WGU Night Owl Network: www.wgunightowlnetwork.com
WGU Alumni LinkedIn Group: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/51112
WGU is eager to provide leadership opportunities to alumni who are dedicated to representing the university by hosting
a networking event, working with a student or prospective student who could use advice from someone who’s “been
there,” helping at commencement, facilitating corporate and school district partnerships along with WGU, etc. This
dedicated group of alumni is called WGU’s Ambassadors Club. Please contact the Alumni Engagement team if you are
interested in joining WGU’s Ambassadors Club.
Career and Professional Development
WGU provides career assistance and resources to students and graduates. Career and Professional Development
(CPD) Specialists are available to educate students and graduates on how to develop a career plan, implement job-
search strategies, and assist with the creation of marketing tools such as resumes, cover letters, and professional
portfolio profiles. Additionally, students and graduates have exclusive 24/7 self-service access to professional career
resources, such as resume development and practice interview software, self-assessments, and job banks. For more
information, visit the Career and Professional Development Website: www.wgu.edu/careerservices.
Please Note: WGU does not guarantee employment upon degree completion or provide placement services.
Library
The WGU Library’s mission is to provide access and delivery of information resources independent of time and place.
The fully online digital library serves students, faculty, and staff around the clock, with library resources available to
users 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The library collection includes hundreds of thousands of ebooks, full text
journals, and licensed academic databases. WGU librarians work with vendors to provide seamless access to
information resources and to ensure patron expectations are met when using library resources. Our main search uses
EBSCO Discovery Service, allowing students to search across the majority of WGU subscriptions via a single platform.
Students can also search individual databases and ebook collections, and have access to a variety of subject-specific
research guides.
For materials not immediately available in our collection, the WGU Library provides document delivery and hardcopy
book loans through the University of Michigan and Reprints Desk document delivery. Students and faculty can also
suggest titles they feel would be a valuable addition to our existing library collections. The WGU Alumni Library is
available to students upon graduation and includes alumni subscription packages and, dependent on licensing
restrictions, some content from our main library collection.
WGU librarians work with university faculty and administration to integrate library resources and information literacy
instruction directly into WGU coursework. Library staff collaborate with subject matter experts, learning resource
specialists, instructional designers, and other content selectors to ensure WGU collections align with program needs,
and to help create tailored information literacy instruction.
Students have multiple options for working with librarians for reference and research support. They can email, schedule
a phone appointment, or chat live with a librarian. The chat service is available 24/7, including holidays. The library
offers general and college-specific live webinars. Information on library use and policies may be accessed at
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Library-Services/ta-p/48.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 10
Facilities
As an online university, WGU does not have a physical campus for students. Prospective students are informed of the
computer capacity requirements for successful access to all WGU systems and learning resources. WGU has various
administrative offices placed throughout the United States with the headquarters located in Utah.
Utah Headquarters: 4001 S 700 E, Suite 700; Salt Lake City, UT 84107 (with enrollment center)
Arizona: 432 N 44th St, Suite 400; Phoenix, AZ 85008 (enrollment center only)
California: 2900 South Harbor Blvd, Suite 201; Santa Ana, CA 92704 (nursing lab only)
Indiana: 333 N Alabama St, Suite 250; Indianapolis, IN 46204
Missouri: 8000 Maryland Ave, Suite 410; St. Louis, MO 63105 (with enrollment center)
North Carolina: 1009 Slater Rd, Suite 310; Durham, NC 27703
Ohio: 325 John H. McConnell Blvd., Suite 375; Columbus, OH 43215
Tennessee: 501 Corporate Centre Dr, Suite 390; Franklin, TN 37067
Texas (Austin): 12515 Research Blvd, Building 8, Suite 250; Austin, TX 78759 (with enrollment center)
Texas (Houston): 2051 S Greenhouse Rd, Suite 375; Houston, TX 77084 (nursing lab only)
Washington: 20435 72nd Ave. South, Suite 301; Kent, WA 98032
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 11
Admissions
General Admission Requirements
WGU seeks to admit individuals who have the capacity and determination to complete a rigorous WGU certificate or
degree program. The admission process is designed to help students and the university reach an informed decision
about an applicant’s likelihood of success.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions.html
Admissions Criteria:
● Prior college experience and work experience (if any)
● The time commitment one can make to their studies
Students may also meet admissions requirements by completing the relevant program of study at WGU Academy, a
pre-enrollment alternative pathway to regular enrollment at WGU.
To be considered for enrollment into a bachelor's degree program, applicants must possess a high school diploma or its
equivalent. Depending upon the program of interest, other specific admission requirements may also apply. See the
program-specific admission requirements below.
Prospective students seeking admission to WGU undergraduate degree programs must be no less than 16 years of
age. Prospective students seeking admission to WGU undergraduate or graduate licensure degree programs must be
no less than 18 years of age at the time of clinical or field placement requirements. Furthermore, prospective students
may not be incarcerated in a state or federal penal institution. Prospective students must also meet all other general and
specific degree program admission requirements on the WGU website.
For convenience, WGU starts new groups of students in most degree programs every month. Currently, WGU programs
do not require a specific score on either the SAT or ACT.
English Language Requirement (TOEFL): WGU students are expected to communicate clearly in writing and during
conversations with WGU faculty and staff. If English is not a student's native language, they must submit proof of a
qualifying score on the Internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT). WGU requires a qualifying
score of 80 or higher. Please see https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Admission/English-Language-Requirement-TOEFL/ta-p/40.
State-specific requirements: https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/state-college-admissions-requirements.html
Steps and Deadlines for Enrollment
Below is the list of steps and their respective deadlines required for enrollment into a WGU degree program:
1. Apply for admission and pay the application fee. The application fee is $65 and can be paid online using a credit card
or by mailing a check or money order. The application fee must be paid before an application will be fully processed.
WGU does not profit from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admissions costs.
2. Send in official transcripts. Depending on the program, students may need to have a transfer evaluation or degree
verification. Students with prior college experience should send in their transcripts to help with a transfer evaluation and
admissions decision. Students should submit official copies of their transcripts by the 1st of the month prior to the
intended start date for evaluation.
Official transcript copies can be submitted by mail or email (transcriptinfo@wgu.edu):
Western Governors University
ATTN: Transcripts Department
4001 South 700 East, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
3. Complete the financial aid application process. If intending to use federal financial aid to cover tuition expenses,
students will need to complete WGU’s financial aid application process and be certified as eligible to receive aid no later
than the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start date. An Enrollment Counselor can answer any questions.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 12
4. Complete the intake interview. The intake interview is a 20 to 30 minute telephone interview that finalizes enrollment
and officially sets the program start date. This call is conducted by an Enrollment Counselor to ensure that students
have accurate and appropriate expectations of WGU and of their program. This step must be completed by the
enrollment deadline (generally the 15th of the month prior to the start date).
5. Satisfy first tuition obligation. The first tuition payment is due by the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start date.
WGU strongly encourages students to make tuition arrangements or finish the financial aid process sooner.
6. Complete orientation. Once the other steps are completed, students will be ready to begin WGU orientation. The
orientation course is designed to help students: understand WGU’s competency-based approach to education, identify
their learning style, gain skills in online research, review time management and study skills, gain practice using online
communication tools such as threaded discussions and chat, and connect with peers and mentors online.
College of Business Admission Requirements
Degrees from the College of Business emphasize mastery of the skills and knowledge that are essential for continued
advancement. Below are admissions requirements specific to College of Business programs that are in addition to
WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/business_requirements
Special Requirements for WGU’s MBA Programs and M.S. Management and Leadership Program:
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of your bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree from a recognized, accredited
institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s MS Accounting Program:
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from a recognized, accredited institution.
● Demonstrate accounting experience through at least one of the following methods:
● A bachelor's degree in accounting.
● A Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license.
There are no special admission requirements for entry into a bachelor's level business degree program.
College of Health Professions Admission Requirements
All of the degrees offered by WGU’s College of Health Professions focus on mastery of the skills and knowledge that are
essential to success in this vital and high-demand field. Below are admissions requirements specific to College of Health
Professions programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html
There are no special admission requirements for entry into the B.S. Health Services Coordination program.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Health Information Management Program:
● Possess a high school diploma or its equivalent.
● Demonstrate IT, healthcare, or business experience through one of the following:
● Option 1: An associate degree in an allied health field, information technology, business administration, or
from a CAHIIM-accredited, or AHIMA-approved (prior to 2006) Associate degree HIT program.
● Option 2: Current active HIM or Revenue Cycle industry certifications or a WGU pathway credential such as
MCCAP, MACCP, or approved WGU Academy pathway.
● Option 3: A resume showing one year of administrative healthcare-related work experience within the last
three years, or an active healthcare-related certification, or three years of information technology experience
or healthcare business management experience. (Escalation to Program Chair for review)
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 13
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. in Nursing Program:
● Possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program.
● Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). RN
licensure in your state of residence or employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences.
Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence.
● Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com).
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (RN to MSN
Option) Programs:
● Possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program.
● Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). RN
licensure in your state of residence or employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences.
Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence.
● Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com).
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (BSN to MSN
Option) Programs:
● Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program.
● Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (though you
are not required to be working as an RN at the time of enrollment). Some license holders may be granted a waiver
if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment. RN licensure in your state of residence or
employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences. Compact licenses must be endorsed by
your state of residence.
● Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com).
Special Requirements for WGU’s Master of Health Leadership Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university and experience in healthcare or healthcare-related
industry. OR
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university and obtain MHL program chair approval.
Special requirements for WGU's Post-Master's Certificates in Nursing Programs:
● Possess an M.S. in Nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing approved program.
● Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment).
Special requirements for WGU's MSN Family Nurse Practitioner Program:
● Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program. Students that hold an MSN will not be eligible to apply for the MSN-FNP pathway.
● Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
applicable state (Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky,
Maine, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, New Jersey, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, and West Virginia). Students must complete
the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain initial APRN licensure in that state.
● Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
● Submit a cover letter and professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
● Submit a letter of intent.* You must submit a 1-2-page student statement detailing your experience in nursing and
explaining why you want to become an FNP. This document helps us understand your unique situation and
personal goals.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 14
● Provide three letters of recommendation from:**
● A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
● A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
● A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
● Have earned a 3.0 cumulative grade point average* (on a 4.0 scale) in the following 5 courses OR hold a BSNU
degree from WGU. All courses must be awarded a C- or above to meet this requirement. At this time, WGU is not
accepting transfer credit for the MSN Famlily Nurse Practitioner program.
● Anatomy / Physiology I w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
● Anatomy / Physiology II w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
● Statistics (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
● Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
● Pharmacology (equivalent to 2 semester hours)
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
**Access the Letter of Recommendation request form through your enrollment portal.
It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the time
of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Program:
Available in Florida, Indiana, Texas, and Utah - WGU has partnerships with healthcare employers who provide practice
sites and clinical coaches to help teach and inspire students on their path to becoming a nurse. Admissions into the B.S.
Nursing (Prelicensure) program is open to aspiring nurses in these select areas who have completed all prerequisites as
outlined below. Enrollment into this program is conducted in two phases of admissions: Pre-Nursing Curriculum and the
Clinical Nursing Program.
Florida students please note: WGU is licensed by the Commission for Independent Education. Additional information
regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Commission at 325 West Gaines Street, Suite 1414,
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400, toll-free number (888) 224-6684. Students are responsible for all travel and associated
expenses related to clinical sites.
Pre-Nursing Enrollment Requirements:
Applicants must have a minimum of a 2.5 GPA in the required nursing sciences to be considered for enrollment into the
pre-nursing program. Successful completion of a nursing program admission exam is required prior to enrollment.
Enrollment in the university and in the pre-nursing term does not guarantee acceptance into the clinical nursing
program. Applicants are required to submit and/or complete the following items:
● Take and pass the ATI TEAS Exam with a minimum total score of 60% and a reading subtest score of at least 60.
● Submit a professional resume.
● Submit a letter of intent.
● Submit one professional letter of recommendation.
● Submit official transcripts from all previous institutions that show completion of required prerequisites. Please see
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements/alternative-transfers-prelicensure.html.
Note: Preference will be given to those individuals with a prior college degree. All prerequisites must be complete before
an application for enrollment can be considered. Applicants who are not native speakers of English are required to take
appropriate tests of language proficiency.
Prelicensure Clinical Nursing Program Admission Requirements:
Enrollment into the Pre-Nursing Curriculum and admission into the Clinical Nursing Program is competitive. Students
must first be accepted and enrolled into the Pre-Nursing Curriculum. Students who are successful in the Pre-Nursing
Curriculum will be allowed to apply for admission for the Clinical Nursing Program. Enrollment in the Pre-Nursing
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 15
Curriculum is not a guarantee for admission into the Clinical Nursing Program. Students must be at least 18 years of age
before beginning the application process or participating in clinical experiences. Students enrolled in the Pre-Nursing
Curriculum must successfully pass the Foundations in Nursing Skills performance exam during the pre-nursing term in
order to be considered for admission.
Approximately 60 days after enrollment into the Pre-Nursing Curriculum, if qualified, students must apply for admission
into the Clinical Nursing Program. To be considered for admission, the following support documentation must be
provided as part of the application process:
● Proof of health insurance.†
● Proof of successfully passing of a criminal background check.*
● Proof of successfully passing a urine drug test.*
● Proof of a current immunization record and current negative TB test. To see which immunizations are required,
please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
● Proof of meeting the specific physical requirements in accordance with the core performance standards of the
nursing profession. For examples, please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
● Participation in an interview with an admissions committee comprised of two or three committee members
including the State Director of Nursing or designee.
† Student malpractice insurance will be provided by WGU at no cost.
* Starred items in the list above are required to be completed no sooner than 90 days prior to beginning the clinical
portions of this program.
Application and acceptance into the program is based on available clinical space, successful completion of all pre-
nursing term course requirements, and numerical ranking of the above items, including a WGU pre-nursing term mentor
recommendation.
College of Information Technology Admission Requirements
Degree programs from WGU's College of Information Technology focus on providing the skills, knowledge, certifications,
and credentials students need to be a successful IT pro. Below are admissions requirements specific to College of
Information Technology programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/it_requirements
Special Requirements for WGU’s B.S. Computer Science Program:
Students must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent and be able to use key calculus principles, rules, and
applications while in the B.S. Computer Science program. Students must demonstrate math readiness through
successful and verifiable completion of a pre-calculus, calculus, or higher-than-calculus math course from an accredited
post-secondary academic institution or WGU-approved third-party provider.
Special Requirements for WGU’s IT bachelor's degree programs:
To be considered for enrollment into a College of IT bachelor's degree program, students must possess a high school
diploma or its equivalent and demonstrate program readiness through one of the following:
● Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of previous IT coursework (must be 300 level or higher).
● Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associate degree (A.A, A.S. or A.A.S. acceptable) from an accredited post-
secondary institution.
● Option 3: Demonstrate at least two years of IT work experience through resume review.
● Option 4: Submit official records of completion of current and active IT certifications, some of which may provide
transfer credit into various programs.
● Option 5: (For applicants to the B.S. in Information Technology and B.S. in Cybersecurity and Information
Assurance programs only) Submit high school transcripts with a minimum GPA of 2.75 and a B grade or higher in
a S.T.E.M. (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) course. Only advanced mathematics courses
will satisfy this requirement.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 16
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field, Business degree (Quantitative Analysis, Accounting, Economics,
Finance, or degree with similar quantitative focus). OR
● Possess any bachelor’s degree PLUS one of the following:
● Two years of related work experience
● Relevant and current IT certification
● Related IT coursework
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. IT Management Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Data Analytics Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field, Business degree (Quantitative Analysis, Accounting, Economics,
Finance, or degree with similar quantitative focus). OR
● Possess any bachelor’s degree PLUS one of the following:
● Two years of related work experience
● Relevant and current IT certification
● Related IT coursework
Teachers College Admission Requirements
The WGU Teachers College is a recognized national leader in online teacher education. Below are admissions
requirements specific to Teachers College programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements
(also see Academic Programs section for steps to become a teacher).
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/teaching-requirements.html
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Initial Teacher Licensure:
Students who are seeking initial teacher licensure in a bachelor’s or master’s program must also pass a state-specific
basic skills test for the state in which they live as a prerequisite to Demonstration Teaching (student teaching).
Registering and paying for the test is the student’s responsibility. This requirement can be met either prior to admission
or before beginning the Foundations of Teaching subject area once enrolled in the WGU program.
WGU’s teacher licensure programs also include Demonstration Teaching (student teaching). Students must be at least
18 years of age before they may begin the application process or participate in Preclinical Experiences and
Demonstration Teaching. Students must also submit to a criminal background check prior to entering the classroom for
this component of the program.
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Endorsement:
If enrolled in a program that also includes a special endorsement (for example, the M.A. in Mathematics Education, with
an endorsement to teach secondary mathematics) and the student plans to eventually apply for the endorsement, the
following are required:
● A copy of a valid teaching license (an Enrollment Counselor will instruct students when and how to submit their
teaching license prior to or during their program).
● Official transcripts demonstrating that a bachelor’s degree was earned from a recognized, accredited university.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership Program:
Prior to entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership degree program, students will be required to complete a candidate
interview and provide the following:
● Evidence of a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution.
● Proof of a state issued, valid, and unexpired standard professional license.
● A resume showing three years of licensed professional experience in a P-12 setting (excluding probationary,
temporary, and substitute teaching experience).
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 17
● A confidential recommendation.
● Recent annual summative performance evaluation.
Additionally, students will complete and submit a Practicum Site Agreement (students in select states will use different
versions). Documents are available at http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/tc_requirements.
Additional Requirements for Entry into M.A. in Teaching Programs:
To be considered eligible for enrollment into a M.A. in Teaching English Education, Mathematics Education or Science
Education degree programs, you must provide official transcripts that demonstrate you have earned a bachelor’s degree
from a recognized, institutionally accredited (also known as regionally accredited) university AND demonstrate readiness
through one of the following:
● Option 1: Content-related undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.5 (or higher, depending upon
your state).
● Option 2: Undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.5 (or higher, depending upon your state) and
24-30 hours of content specific coursework, equivalent to a major.
● Option 3: Undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.0 (or higher, depending upon your state), a
passing score on the WGU program required basic skills test (e.g., Praxis CORE) and demonstrate content
competency via one of the following pathways 1) 24-30 hours of content specific coursework, equivalent to a
major OR 2) an undergraduate or graduate degree in a content-related area to which area of program you are
seeking admission.
The M.A. in Teaching, Elementary Education and M.A. in Teaching, Special Education degree programs requires a 2.5
minimum GPA (or higher, depending upon your state), or the competency-based equivalent, in your bachelor's program.
Applicants with a GPA lower than a 2.5 but a 2.0 or above may seek admission by submitting passing scores from the
WGU program required basic skills test (e.g. Praxis CORE). An Enrollment Counselor can help students best determine
whether they have the sufficient background for entry into their program of choice.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 18
State Regulatory Information
Western Governors University monitors developments in state rules and regulations to maintain pathways to
opportunities where students reside. If changes to the pathways occur while a student is enrolled, WGU works with the
state and notifies the affected students to potential alternative pathways.
Professional Licensure
WGU regularly verifies licensure requirements in each state for programs that lead to a professional license. For a
current listing of licensure information, please see the links below.
Teacher Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-teaching-degrees/state-licensure.html
Nursing Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-nursing-health-degrees/state-licensure.html
Business Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-business-degrees/state-licensure.html
NC-SARA
Western Governors University is a participating institution of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity
Agreements ("NC-SARA" or "SARA"), allowing WGU to operate in a number of states/territories based on its approval in
the State of Utah. For additional information on NC-SARA, visit http://nc-sara.org. After exhausting WGU’s Student
Complaint Process, the Utah System of Higher Education ("USHE") handles complaints from individuals in states/
territories where the university operates (see https://ushe.edu/office-of-commissioner/state-authorization-ut-sara/);
however, USHE will only consider complaints that were previously unresolved by WGU and may refer a complaint to an
agency in another state for investigation.
Complaint Process: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Consumer-Complaint-Process/ta-p/160
If a state or territory is not included below, WGU educates students in those jurisdictions through participation in SARA.
American Samoa
American Samoa does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval for WGU to offer distance education
programs to students located in American Samoa is not required.
Arizona
Western Governors University is approved by the Arizona State Board for Private Postsecondary Education. If a student
complaint cannot be resolved after exhausting the Institution’s grievance procedure, the student may file a complaint
with the Arizona State Board for Private Postsecondary Education. The student must contact the State Board for further
details: 1740 W. Adams Street, Suite 3008; Phoenix, AZ 85007; (602) 542-5709; Website: www.azppse.gov
California
The California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education does not regulate out-of-state private nonprofit institutions.
Therefore, approval for WGU to offer distance education programs to students located in California is not required.
Florida
Western Governors University is licensed to operate the Prelicensure Nursing program by the Commission for
Independent Education, Florida Department of Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be
obtained by contacting the Commission at 325 West Gaines Street, Suite 1414; Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400; (888)
224-6684; www.fldoe.org/policy/cie. All other programs are offered through WGU's participation in SARA.
Guam
The Guam Council on Post-Secondary Institution Certification does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval
for WGU to offer distance education programs to students located in Guam is not required.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 19
Indiana
Western Governors University, known in Indiana as “Western Governors University Indiana” or “WGU Indiana” was
chartered by Executive Order 10-04 of Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., Governor of the State of Indiana, on June 11, 2010.
Missouri
Western Governors University, known in Missouri as “Western Governors University Missouri” or “WGU Missouri” was
established by Executive Order 13-04 of Jay Nixon, Governor of the State of Missouri, on February 15, 2013.
Western Governors University is approved to operate online degree programs by the Missouri Department of Higher
Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Department at 301 W.
High Street, P.O. Box 1469; Jefferson City, MO 65102-1469; info@dhewd.mo.gov.
Nevada
Western Governors University, known in Nevada as “Western Governors University Nevada” or “WGU Nevada” was
established by an Executive Proclamation of Brian Sandoval, Governor of the State of Nevada, on June 16, 2015.
North Carolina
Western Governors University, known in North Carolina as “Western Governors University North Carolina” or “WGU
North Carolina” was established on October 5, 2017 through approval by The University of North Carolina System.
The UNC System Office
910 Raleigh Road
P.O. Box 2688
Chapel Hill, NC 27514
Website: www.northcarolina.edu/content/contact-us
Student complaints with the state may be submitted to:
North Carolina Post-Secondary Education Complaints
c/o Student Complaints
University of North Carolina System Office
910 Raleigh Road
Chapel Hill, NC 27515-2688
Email: studentcomplaint@northcarolina.edu
Website: https://www.northcarolina.edu/post-secondary-education-complaints/
A Tuition Guarantee Bond for North Carolina is held at the office of the president in Salt Lake City, UT and is reviewable
upon request to those wishing to see it during business hours.
Northern Mariana Islands
The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval for
WGU to offer distance education programs to students located in the Northern Mariana Islands is not required.
Ohio
Western Governors University, known in Ohio as “Western Governors University Ohio” or “WGU Ohio” was established
on June 21, 2018 through approval by the Ohio Department of Higher Education. Additonal information regarding this
institution may be obtained by contacting the Department at 25 South Front Street; Columbus, OH 43215; (614)
466-6000; www.ohiohighered.org.
Tennessee
Western Governors University, known in Tennessee as “Western Governors University Tennessee” or “WGU
Tennessee” was established through a Memorandum of Understanding between Bill Haslam, Governor of the State of
Tennessee, and Robert W. Mendenhall, President of Western Governors University, on July 9, 2013.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 20
Texas
Western Governors University, known in Texas as “Western Governors University Texas” or “WGU Texas” was
established by Executive Order RP 75 of Rick Perry, Governor of the State of Texas, on August 3, 2011.
Western Governors University is authorized to conduct courses and grant degrees by the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Board at 1200 E
Anderson Lane; Austin, TX 78752; (512) 427-6101.
Utah
Western Governors University has met the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §13-34a-203 to be a registered
postsecondary school, legally authorized by the State of Utah.
Washington
Western Governors University, known in Washington as “Western Governors University Washington” or “WGU
Washington” was established by the passing of Substitute House Bill 1822, effective on July 22, 2011, with the approval
of Christine Gregoire, Governor of the State of Washington.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 21
Tuition and Financial Aid
Tuition and Fees for Degree Programs (Effective August 1, 2021)
WGU charges tuition at a flat rate every term. The more courses a student completes each term, the more affordable
their degree program becomes. For more information, visit https://www.wgu.edu/financial-aid-tuition.html. All prices
below are in U.S. Dollars.
Applicable to All Programs
Resource Fee: $145 Per Term
Application Fee: $65 (One Time)
Note: WGU does not “profit” from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admission
costs. WGU charges a $145 Resource Fee each term. This fee helps cover the use of the online library, e-textbooks,
and many other learning resources. With few exceptions, required textbooks are available as e-textbooks, so students
won’t have to purchase hard copy textbooks.
Transcript order and other potential fees - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Tuition-and-Fees-Amount/ta-p/57
College of Business
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,575 Per Term
Graduate Program Tuition: $4,530 Per Term
College of Health Professions
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (RN to BSN) Tuition: $3,475 Per Term + $175 Per Term Program Fee
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (Prelicensure) Tuition: $5,930 Per Term + $500 Per Term Program Fee*
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management Tuition: $3,475 Per Term + $175 Per Term Program Fee
Bachelor of Science, Health Services Coordination Tuition: $3,475 Per Term + $175 Per Term Program Fee
Master of Science, Nursing (BSN to MSN) Tuition: $4,240 Per Term
Master of Science, Nursing, Family Nurse Practitioner Tuition: $4,250 Per Term + $1,250 Per Term Program Fee
Master of Science, Nursing (RN to MSN) Tuition: $3,475 Per Term + $175 Per Term Program Fee (Undergraduate
Portion), $4,240 Per Term (Graduate Portion)
Master of Health Leadership Tuition or Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing Tuition: $4,240 Per Term
All College of Health Professions programs, excluding the BSN (Prelicensure), MSN Family Nurse Practitioner, and
Master of Health Leadership programs, require a one-time Health Professions Fee of $350.
*B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Fees:
● Program Fee: $500 (per term)
● ATI TEAS Exam: $115 (at PSI Testing Centers; cost differs at other sites)
● Uniforms: $146.30 (plus shipping, handling, and applicable taxes)
● Lab kit fees: $263.09
● Drug Screen, Background Check, and Immunization Tracking System: $94 - Price includes one alias search.
There will be a separate charge for each additional alias search, and due to expenses associated with accessing
court documents, the fees for students in the following states will be as follows: MI ($10), NV ($12). All fees are
subject to change.
● Students may also be required to pay for a doctor’s visit for a physical examination and immunizations to fulfill
specific admissions requirements.
College of Information Technology
Bachelor of Science, Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Tuition: $3,950 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
Bachelor of Science, Cloud Computing Tuition: $3,790 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
Other IT Undergraduate Programs Tuition: $3,625 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
Master of Science, Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Tuition: $4,295 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
Other IT Graduate Programs Tuition: $3,940 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 22
Teachers College
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,475 Per Term + $150 Per Term Program Fee
Graduate Programs with Supervised Field Experience Tuition: $3,490 per term + $300 Per Term Program Fee**
Other Graduate Programs Tuition: $3,490 Per Term***
**Includes M.A. Teaching, Endorsement Preparation, M.S. Educational Leadership, and M.A. English Language
Learning programs.
***Includes all M.A. Mathematics Education and M.A. Science Education programs, all M.Ed. programs, and the M.S.
Curriculum and Instruction program.
Individuals pursuing a bachelor's or master's degree in science education will be issued a home science lab and be
assessed a one-time charge of $350 (billed separately along with the first term's tuition).
Tuition Payment and Financial Policies
The Financial Aid Office can be reached by email at financialservices@wgu.edu or by calling 877.435.7948. Hours of
operation are weekdays 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed on weekends).
WGU Financial Policy
Western Governors University is dedicated to providing the best possible education and service to our students. A
complete understanding of financial responsibilities is an essential element of a student’s education. The WGU Financial
Services office is committed to assisting all student account needs. However, students have the primary responsibility to
make sure their tuition is paid on time each term.
Payment is Required at the Beginning of Each Term
Tuition for the full term is due by the 1st day of each term. Financial clearance is due for new students on or before the
22nd of the month proceeding the first day of the first term. Acceptance of term registration confirms agreement to pay
tuition in full. For a small enrollment fee, WGU offers a payment plan for those who cannot pay in full by the required
date. To enroll in a payment plan, select the "View Payment Plans” link in the Financial Services section on the Student
Support tab of the student portal. Payment or payment plan participation is required by the first day of each new term.
Students in an active bankruptcy, prior collection agency placement for a balance due to WGU, or who have a prior
payment plan default, are not eligible for a WGU payment plan.
Payment Deadlines
Payments received or payment arrangements must be completed on the student portal by:
● New student with first term tuition - On the 22nd day of month prior to term start.
● Renewal term tuition - First day of the term.
Financial Aid
Students have the responsibility to apply for and submit all forms required by the Financial Aid office and be aware of
deadlines for submission. Application for financial aid is not a guarantee of funding. In the event students are approved
for financial aid and are under-funded or students become ineligible for financial aid funds they are responsible for the
financial obligation on their account. Regardless of the status of their financial aid file, it is the responsibility of students
to ensure that tuition and fees are paid by the appropriate deadline.
Funds are applied to the student accounts in the following order as needed:
● Federal Pell grant
● Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG)
● State grants
● Scholarships/Tuition Assistance
● Direct subsidized loans
● Teach grant
● Americorps
● Direct unsubsidized loans
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 23
● PLUS loans
● Private loans
Payment Methods
WGU accepts cash, checks, and web checks/EFT at no additional cost to students. Credit/Debit cards (Visa,
MasterCard, Discover, and American Express) are accepted, but a 2.75% card processing fee applies. WGU does not
accept post-dated checks. WGU will not hold any check for deposit past the date of the receipt of the check. WGU is not
responsible for bank fees associated with the deposit of said check.
To protect students' financial records, WGU does not accept payments over the phone, under any circumstance.
Refunds
Once eligibility for a refund is calculated, the Financial Services office processes tuition charges and refunds within 30
days, as applicable. Funds reimbursed to students are reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., payments
received via credit card are refunded (less non-refundable convenience fee) to the card used for payment, and
payments received via check are refunded via check or direct deposit. To set up your preferred check refund method,
please access the ‘Select Refund Method’ link available on the ‘My Account’ page in the Student portal. In the case of
financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the appropriate grant or loan program based
on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this calculation, students may owe WGU a
portion of tuition and fees not covered.
All funding sources (i.e., internal and external scholarships, waivers, discounts and grants) will be reviewed and may be
subject to a proration calculation. In the case of third-party funds (i.e., employer contributions, government funding,
military payments, etc.), if the payment exceeds tuition and fees, WGU will follow any instructions provided by the
original payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. If no instructions are provided, the refund will be processed to
the original payer. Students are responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed, after refunds to all payers.
Note: For Missouri residents, the application fee is refundable if the applicant terminates the admission process by
notifying the Enrollment or Admissions Department within three business days of paying the application fee. The
resource fee is billed at the beginning of each term and is refundable if the student terminates enrollment within three
business days of the start of the term. After three business days, these fees are non-refundable.
Florida residents who enroll in the B.S. in Nursing program are eligible for the refund of an application fee payment ($65)
if the Enrollment Agreement is canceled within three days.
Billing and Account Statements
A WGU student account billing notice is generated each time a charge or a charge adjustment is applied to a student
account. Billing notices are delivered to myWGU student email accounts and can be found by visiting the Student
Support tab in the student portal. Select Financial Services on the left, then click the "Make Payment" button. All notices
will be stored in the "MyBills" section. Monthly account statement notifications are delivered on approximately the 17th
day of each month. Notice of monthly account statements is delivered to myWGU student email accounts.
Past Due Accounts
Tuition for the full term is due by the first day of each term. Any account not paid in full, awarded financial aid funding or
other third-party guarantor, or on an authorized myPayment Plan is past due on the second day of the term. Past due
accounts may be placed on financial hold for non-payment. Failure to complete payment or payment arrangements with
WGU or make payment in full may result in administrative withdrawal.
Automatic Enrollment Confirmation/Not Attending Cancellation for Renewal Term Students
Students' tuition for renewal terms is automatically charged on the first day of the term. Thus, if a student will not be
attending a subsequent term, it is necessary for the student to notify their Program Mentor by telephone or email prior to
enrollment for the term. Once the student has completed term enrollment with the Program Mentor, the student will be
liable for charges incurred.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 24
Final Term Students
Students in their final term may be eligible for part time enrollment if they do not have enough required units remaining
to be full-time. All Students will have their tuition adjusted by the number of competency units enrolled in a term, not by
time attended within a term. For an estimate of prorated tuition, please refer to the student handbook article -
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Tuition-Information-for-Part-Time-Enrollment/ta-p/107
Returned Checks
Payment of tuition or fees with a check that is subsequently returned as unpaid from the bank results in a returned
check fee. A student may not satisfy a returned check obligation with a personal check. After two returned checks, WGU
will no longer accept a personal check for payment on a student's account. All future payments must be made via credit
card (which will incur a 2.75% convenience fee) or money order. Failure to clear a returned check taken in payment for
tuition or fees results in administrative withdrawal from WGU. Once this action is taken, students cannot be reinstated
for the term, but will owe prorated portion of the charges for tuition in addition to other collection costs and charges
necessary for the collection of the returned check. A student may apply for re-enrollment for the following term when all
balances are resolved.
Delinquent Accounts
Failure to meet financial obligations of any kind to the university may result in a financial hold and suspension of future
services including enrollment for subsequent terms. In addition, delinquent accounts may be referred to a collection
agency. Students are responsible for additional late payment charges, interest, attorney's fees, other reasonable costs,
and charges necessary for the collection of any amount not paid when due.
Student Financial Aid Requirements
http://www.wgu.edu/tuition_financial_aid/financial_aid
WGU is approved by the U.S. Department of Education to offer federal student aid in most of our programs. Because of
our more affordable tuition, WGU students are able to graduate without large amounts of student debt to repay. If
students qualify for and accept federal student aid, it will cover most, if not all, direct education expenses. Financial aid
can be used for tuition and fees (including electronic learning materials), textbooks, technology, room and board. A
complete list of allowable expenses is listed in the Cost of Attendance Policy.
To receive consideration for any federal student aid program, students must first file the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA) at https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa. When students fill out the FAFSA, they are applying
for aid for a specific year; therefore, they will need to renew the FAFSA application each award year.
Most WGU students qualify for at least one type of federal aid. To be eligible for federal student aid (grants, loans, and
work-study funds), students must meet the following requirements established by the U.S. Department of Education:
● demonstrate financial need (for most programs);
● be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen;
● have a valid Social Security number (with the exception of students from the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau);
● be registered with Selective Service, if you identify as male (you must register between the ages of 18 and 25);
● be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a regular student in an eligible program;
● be enrolled at least half-time to be eligible for Direct Loan Program funds;
● maintain satisfactory academic progress;
● sign the certification statement on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) form stating that
● you are not in default on a federal student loan,
● you do not owe money on a federal student grant, and
● you will use federal student aid only for educational purposes; and
● show you’re qualified to obtain a college education by
● having a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent such as a General Educational Development
(GED) certificate;
● completing a high school education in a homeschool setting approved under state law (or—if state law does
not require a homeschooled student to obtain a completion credential—completing a high school education
in a homeschool setting that qualifies as an exemption from compulsory attendance requirements under
state law); or
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 25
● enrolling in an eligible career pathway program and meeting one of the "ability-to-benefit" alternatives
described at https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/eligibility/basic-criteria#ability-to-benefit.
Satisfactory Academic Progress
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Federal regulations require that all students who receive federal student aid funds maintain satisfactory academic
progress (SAP). It is a measure of student progress toward the completion of a degree and is assessed by qualitative
(grade-based) and quantitative (time-based) measures. WGU evaluates these measures at the end of each completed
payment period or term in the student's academic program and at the time of withdrawal from the university.
The university defines demonstrating a competency (a grade of "pass") as a grade equivalent to a “B” or better (3.0 on a
4-point scale). Students receive a mark of "pass" or "not passed" on their permanent academic record for any courses
for which they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment. Students who are withdrawn from the
university or course before term completion may receive a "withdrawn" grade. A course with a grade of "not passed" or
"withdrawn" is considered as a failed course and is counted against SAP.
A quantitative measure is the completion of 66.67% of all competency units attempted. This percentage is determined
by dividing the number of competency units completed by the total number of units for which a student enrolled
cumulatively over the student's academic career at WGU. Completing at least 66.67% of all competencies means the
student is on track to complete the program within the required 150% of the published length of the program measured
in competency units.
Maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress
To maintain good standing for SAP, students must achieve an overall minimum cumulative pass rate of 66.67% for all
competency units attempted and completed.
The Higher Education Act requires a specific qualitative review at the end of the student's second academic year.
Students enrolled in a program of more than two academic years must have at least a “C” or its equivalent, or have an
academic standing consistent with WGU’s graduation requirements. In addition, a student is ineligible when it becomes
mathematically impossible for the student to complete their program within 150% of the length of the program.
Transfer Credits from Other Institutions
Students who are granted transfer credits to WGU that count toward the student's current program of study are included
in both attempted and completed when measuring SAP.
First-Term Critical Actions
New students at WGU who do not complete one of the defined "first-term critical actions" within 45 days from the first
term start date will be administratively withdrawn. The incomplete first-term critical action is excluded from both
attempted and completed when measuring SAP. For more information on first-term critical actions, see the student
handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Technical-Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989.
Program Change
A change in program of study will not affect a student's SAP standing provided the new program is in the same
credential level as the old program and transfer credit is not added or removed. Students requesting re-entry into the
university will return with the SAP status calculated at the time of withdrawal unless a program change is requested that
results in awarding additional transfer credit or removing transfer credit. The university will include coursework taken by
the student for enrollment in other majors or programs when calculating cumulative SAP. However, if the credential level
of the new program is different from the old program (e.g. Bachelor's degree program into Master's degree program or
vice versa), the student will begin as a first term student with a new SAP history.
For more information on program changes, multiple programs, and stacked degree and credential programs, please
refer to the student handbook using the SAP link above.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 26
Financial Aid Warning
Students who fail to maintain SAP are placed on "warning" and may be terminated from federal financial aid eligibility
according to the following criteria:
First Term Students*
● First term students who finish their first term with a cumulative SAP of less than 50% are automatically terminated
from federal financial aid.
● First term students who complete at least 50% of attempted competency units, but fail to complete the 66.67%
required for good standing for SAP are placed on warning for the following term and remain eligible for financial
aid.
*Note: First term students include WGU graduates in the first term of an additional degree.
Continuing Students**
● Continuing students who begin a term in good standing whose cumulative SAP falls below 66.67% but not lower
than 50% are placed on warning for the following term and remain eligible for financial aid.
● Continuing students who begin a term in good standing whose cumulative SAP falls below 50% are automatically
terminated from financial aid without a warning term.
● Students in a warning term who achieve a cumulative completion rate of at least a 66.67% are returned to good
academic standing.
● Students in a warning term who end the warning term with a cumulative completion rate below 66.67% SAP are
terminated from financial aid eligibility.
**Note: Continuing students are those that are enrolled beyond the first term.
Students who are terminated from financial aid eligibility may continue their studies at WGU but are required to self-pay
and make payment arrangements through the Student Accounts office.
In the case of extenuating circumstances, students may appeal their termination status to the Financial Aid Appeal
Committee. Please refer to the student handbook for instructions regarding financial aid termination and appeal,
financial aid probation, and financial aid reinstatement.
Student Notification
The university notifies students of the results of any SAP evaluation affecting the eligibility for FSA funds for the entire
payment period.
Scholarship and Grant Recipients
Most scholarships and grants do not allow for a warning term. Failure to meet SAP in any given term can result in
termination of scholarship or grant funds. Please refer to the scholarship or grant materials or contact the scholarship
department at scholarships@wgu.edu for additional information.
Scholarships
Scholarship awards issued by Western Governors University are financial awards provided to students to help them
meet a portion of their tuition costs. Awards are limited to the amount of each scholarship, and depending on the
amount, the scholarship may or may not cover all tuition and fees. Students are responsible for paying any tuition
charges not covered by their scholarship. Unused scholarship monies will not be refunded to students.
Scholarship terms - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Scholarship-Terms-and-Conditions/ta-p/67
Scholarship list - https://www.wgu.edu/financial-aid-tuition/scholarships.html
Refund and Cancellation Policy
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Institutional-Withdrawal-Refund-Policy/ta-p/87
Students with a withdrawal date up through the completion of 60% of a term are eligible for a refund of a prorated
portion of tuition. Students with a withdrawal date occurring after 60% of the term is completed are not eligible for a
refund. The admission application fee, resource fee, and program specific fees are non-refundable.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 27
Determining Withdrawal Dates
Withdrawal dates are determined in two ways, either through student-initiated withdrawal (official) or through WGU
administrative withdrawal (unofficial). Student-initiated withdrawal occurs when the student notifies WGU of the intent to
withdraw. Administrative withdrawal occurs when WGU determines that students are no longer enrolled based on a
variety of reasons such as lack of academic activity, failure to establish enrollment at the beginning of a new term, or
failure to pay tuition.
Student-initiated withdrawals: The withdrawal date is the date the student notifies the university of the intent to withdraw.
Administrative withdrawals: The withdrawal date is the last date of student academic activity.
Calculating the Refund
Students who withdraw before completing 60% of a term (the number of calendar days from the official term start date to
the withdrawal date, divided by the total number of calendar days in the term) are eligible for a prorated refund of tuition.
The amount of the tuition refund is calculated by multiplying tuition billed for the term (less any tuition discounts) by the
percentage of the term the student was not enrolled and subtracting the amount of tuition already paid. For example, a
student who withdraws halfway (50%) through a term and has paid $2000 of a $3000 total tuition charge would be
entitled to a refund of $500 (($3000 * 50%) - $2000 = -$500)).
Refunds
Once eligibility for a refund is calculated, the Financial Services office processes tuition charges and refunds within 30
days, as applicable. In the case of financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the
appropriate grant or loan program based on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this
calculation, students may owe WGU a portion of tuition and fees that are not covered. Funds reimbursed to the student
are reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., tuition paid by check is refunded by check, and tuition paid by
credit card is refunded by credit card (less non refundable convenience fee).
All funding sources (i.e., internal and external scholarships, waivers, discounts and grants) will be reviewed and may be
subject to a proration calculation. In the case of third-party funds, i.e., employer contributions, government funding,
military payments, etc., if the payment exceeds tuition and fees, WGU will follow any instructions provided by the original
payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. If no instructions are provided, the refund will be processed to the
original payer. Students are responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed, after refunds to all payers.
Tuition Appeal
In the case of exceptional circumstances where students are not entitled to a refund under the policies outlined above,
students may make an appeal for tuition considerations by submitting a formal complaint containing a written
explanation of circumstances that warrant an exception to the published refund policy. Exceptional circumstances might
include incapacitating illness or injury. Supporting documentation to verify exceptional circumstances is required.
Disciplinary action imposed on a student due to violations of the Code of Student Conduct is not considered valid
grounds for tuition appeal. For more information, visit https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Student-
Complaint-and-Grievance-Policy/ta-p/194.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 28
Academic Policies
Credit Transfer Guidelines
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers.html
WGU does not grant credit for prior training or experience. However, students who enter with significant experience in
their field of study may be able to pass some of the required WGU assessments on an accelerated schedule. Transfer
guidelines are described below in excerpts from the WGU website.
General Transfer Guidelines
● For undergraduate programs, a personal evaluation of transcripts from previously attended institutions will be
needed to determine whether a student will be able to use transfer credits to clear any degree requirements. See
below for more specific guidelines.
● WGU accepts limited college transfer credits at the graduate (master’s) level in only a few programs: M.S. Nursing
and Master of Health Leadership. Transfer credit into the M.S. Nursing and Master of Health Leadership programs
will only be considered for new students beginning their program on February 1, 2021, and beyond. Transfer
credit is not accepted in all other master's programs.
● Send bachelor's degree transcripts for proof of completion of a bachelor’s degree.
● WGU will not complete unofficial transcript evaluations. Speaking to an Enrollment Counselor will allow students
to get a general idea of what might be able to transfer, but students will be required to submit official copies of
their transcripts for an official evaluation.
● To have an official transcript evaluation completed, students will need to complete the online application form and
pay the application fee.
Completed Courses or a Degree
● If students hold an Associate of Arts (AA), Associate of Science (AS), Associate of Applied Arts (AAA), or
Associate of Applied Science (AAS) from an institution that is recognized as accredited by the U.S. Department of
Education, they should satisfy most of the lower-division general education requirements for a bachelor’s degree
in business or information technology. For all programs, a course-by-course evaluation is required for college
credit transfer unless the transfer institution is a partner institution to WGU (see Transferring from a Community
College below).
● If students have completed college courses but not earned a degree of any type, they may satisfy some degree
requirements through a course-by-course transcript evaluation.
Transferring from a Community College
WGU maintains relations with many community colleges throughout the United States. Students transferring from a U.S.
community college can expect a comprehensive transfer policy. Information about community college transfers is
available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/community-college.html and https://partners.wgu.edu.
Transcripts
The Transcripts Department must receive official transcripts by the 1st of the month prior to the intended start date of the
program. It is a student’s obligation to request official transcripts from previous institutions. WGU encourages students to
request transcripts as soon as possible.
Official transcript copies can be submitted by mail or email (transcriptinfo@wgu.edu):
Western Governors University
ATTN: Transcripts Department
4001 South 700 East, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
For more information, see https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/transcript-request.html.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 29
Other Transfer Guidelines
For specific program transfer guidelines please see https://partners.wgu.edu/transferguidelines.
Transferring from WGU
WGU students transferring to another institution from WGU should keep in mind the following points:
● All institutions reserve the right to determine their own transfer policies, and not all academic work completed at
one institution may transfer to another.
● Students should check the transfer policies at the institutions they are considering by consulting with the
admissions or registrar's office at those institutions.
● Students who transfer should request that the WGU registrar send an official transcript to the institutions where
they are applying for admission.
● The WGU transcript will note subject areas (courses) that were successfully completed. WGU transfer credits and
equivalencies for the completed courses will be listed.
Term Registration and Enrollment
WGU starts a new term on the first day of every month and the duration is six calendar months in length. Students may
only be enrolled in a single term and are considered enrolled and active once term enrollment has been established.
Students register prior to a term by working with their Program Mentor to set a plan of courses to be completed.
Students then accept enrollment for the term on or after the first day of the new term. The term enrollment process is
important because by accepting enrollment, the student is agreeing to pay tuition in full, complete the courses by the
end of the term, and adhere to the Academic Activity Policy.
As part of the term planning process, the student will complete the course planning tool for each course for which they
are planning to register. During term registration, the student and Program Mentor will use the course planning tool
report, as well as information about the student's schedule and needs, to make a Term Plan that includes start and end
dates for each course in the term. The student will select these dates with their Program Mentor to help set a pace that
will ensure the student can complete the enrolled courses by the end of the term. Because starting courses in a timely
fashion is essential to staying on pace, each student should work with their Program Mentor to set a Term Plan and
accept enrollment by the 7th day of each term.
Term enrollment must be completed no later than the 10th day of the start of the term for continuing students and the
20th day of the start of the term for new students. Students who do not complete registration and enrollment for the new
term by these deadlines are administratively withdrawn from the university. First term students must also complete one
of the First Term Critical Actions within 45 days of the start of their first term to avoid administrative withdrawal.
Once term enrollment is established, students are considered enrolled for the term and are responsible for tuition
charges. Once students have enrolled in a term, they are committed to the courses and changes to enrollment will not be
processed.
Academic Activity Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Academic-Activity-Policy/ta-p/11641
Course Planning Tool - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Course-Planning-Tool/ta-p/18853
First Term Critical Actions - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989
Working Ahead or Accelerating Courses
Students may accelerate their studies by adding additional courses from their active program to their current terms once
they have successfully completed all term requirements (original term enrollment). Students who choose to add
additional courses to a term should discuss course acceleration in detail with their Program Mentor. Students should
complete the course planning tool for a course before accelerating the course.
Marks of Not Passed
Students are responsible for making sure they complete all courses for which they are enrolled in a term. A mark of Not
Passed becomes part of the permanent academic record and transcript for all enrolled courses that are not attempted,
not completed and not passed. A mark of Not Passed will count against satisfactory academic progress. Refer to the
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy and the Incomplete Course Policy. A student’s academic history will not
be altered due to changes in program or course updates. Any changes or updates to the degree plan due to a program
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 30
change or course change does not negate the student’s responsibility to complete all courses in term enrollment.
Courses appearing on the transcript as Not Passed will not be altered should a student decide to pursue a program
change or course update. Some academic changes may result in a permanent unresolved not passed on a student’s
academic history and WGU transcript.
SAP Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Incomplete Course Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Incomplete-Course-Policy/ta-p/82
Passing Vendor Assessments/Certifications not Enrolled in Current Term
Students who attempt and pass a course with a vendor assessment(s)/certification(s) without enrolling in that course in
the term shall receive the grade of ‘Requirement Satisfied’ (RS). Students who attempt a course-related vendor
assessment(s)/certification(s), or take any other third-party assessment (e.g. PRAXIS) without course enrollment and/or
referral through WGU’s assessment scheduling procedures will not have the cost of the exam/voucher(s) paid nor
reimbursed by WGU.
Attendance Policy
WGU does not have an institutional attendance policy. Progress is governed by successfully completing assessments
that demonstrate mastery of the required competencies. Students engage in a variety of learning resources to build
competence and prepare for the assessments. In most cases, these learning materials are independent learning
resources such as textbooks, e-learning modules, study guides, simulations, virtual labs, and tutorials.
Communication Protocol
WGU programs are designed for regular interaction between a student and Program Mentor throughout a term. Regular,
course-focused communication with the Instructor throughout a course is also expected.
During the first term, a student meets the Program Mentor by phone on a recurring basis to discuss program and course
content, pacing, and other academic needs, with an overarching focus on developing consistent engagement with
learning resources, Instructors, and assessments. A student who demonstrates consistent engagement in the first term
(by completing all enrolled CUs, or steady progress toward course completion through consistent learning resource and
faculty interactions) will earn more flexibility in future communication with their Program Mentor. The frequency and
format (e.g., email, chat, or other media) of these communications will be mutually agreed upon by the student and
Program Mentor and can be adjusted as needed to help the student maintain OTP and consistent academic activity.
Students who fail to demonstrate consistent engagement after the first term will collaborate with their Program Mentor to
develop an individual plan designed to promote and sustain academic progress. Minimally, this plan will include
recurring phone communication with the Program Mentor to develop study and time-management strategies and the
identification of academic milestones and is expected to include one-to-one work with an Instructor for content mastery.
Students are entitled and encouraged to contact Program Mentors and Instructors as often as needed and can expect
that any interaction with these faculty members will focus on mastery of course content, program content and academic
progress. Students should also expect to be contacted by Program Mentors and Instructors to provide instruction,
support and guidance throughout a term and course.
If a student misses a scheduled call, the Program Mentor will immediately send an email to the student to reschedule
the appointment. Students who fail to respond to this email or other outreach within 14 days of their last phone contact
with Faculty will be required to meet with their Program Mentor to develop a plan for the immediate resumption of their
studies, including Program Mentor interactions. A student who fails to respond to their Program Mentor within 20 days
may be administratively withdrawn from the university. This protocol applies with equal force to phone calls, messages
and other contacts which require a student response made by a Program Mentor outside of a scheduled interaction, or
by an Instructor.
Academic Progress
Western Governors University helps students achieve their dreams for a degree and career success by providing a
personal, flexible, and affordable education based upon real-world competencies. WGU takes an active interest in
students' progress through their academic programs and requires students to make measurable advancement toward
completion of their degree program each term. With this in mind, the university has established the following policies:
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 31
On-Time Progress (OTP): Students completing a minimum of 12 competency units (CUs) at the undergraduate level,
and 8 competency units at the graduate level, are considered to be making on-time progress toward graduation.
Lack of Progress: Within a term, undergraduate students who complete less than 3 competency units, and graduate
students who complete less than 2 competency units, will be administratively withdrawn from the university at the end of
the term. Additionally, students who are readmitted to the university and fail to complete the minimum requirements
described above will be administratively withdrawn at the end of the term and will not be eligible for readmission.
Academic Progress Appeals: A student may appeal an administrative withdrawal for lack of academic progress by
emailing records@wgu.edu from their WGU email address. Students must submit their appeal from their WGU email
address between the 25th of the final month of the term and the 5th of the following month. A student who is
administratively withdrawn for lack of academic progress may appeal for readmission for a start date no sooner than six
months from their effective withdrawal date. Readmission is not guaranteed.
Appeals should be titled “Academic Progress Appeal.” The appeal must include the following information along with any
other details the student feels should be considered:
● Clearly state the reasons that the academic progress requirement was not met.
● Detail a plan for success in the new term if allowed to remain enrolled.
Administrative Withdrawal - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Withdrawal-Administrative/ta-p/84
Readmission Following Withdrawal - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Admission/Readmission-Following-Withdrawal/ta-p/143
Academic Activity Policy
In addition to the requirements of the Academic Progress policy, students are expected to demonstrate consistent
engagement with their studies throughout each academic term. Activities demonstrating academic engagement include:
● Discussion of course content with an Instructor
● Live academic conversation with a Program Mentor
● Completing course planning tools
● Activating a course by clicking the Start Course button
● Completing pre-assessments
● Completing objective assessments
● Submitting a performance assessment task for evaluation
● Attending a faculty-led live event, such as a webinar
● Use of course learning resources
● Viewing recorded faculty-led live events
● Viewing a course-related academic video
Students who are not academically engaged for a period of 14 days will be required to meet with their Program Mentor
to develop a plan for the immediate resumption of their studies, to include reengagement with course learning resources
and/or meeting with an Instructor. Students who demonstrate 28 days of inactivity will be subject to administrative
withdrawal. An academically inactive student will be notified prior to withdrawal.
First-Term Critical Actions
First-Term Critical Actions are academic activities that are highly correlated with student success in the first term (and
each successive term). *New students accordingly, are required to engage in at least one of the following academic
activities in at least one registered course during the first 45 days of their first term:
● Completion of a Preassessment
● Completion of an Objective Assessment
● Submission of a Performance Assessment Task
Note: If a performance assessment task is returned without an evaluation (as expressed in a comment accompanying
the returned task), the submission does not count as a Critical Action. If an evaluation is completed, the submission will
count as a Critical Action whether the submission passes or is returned for revision. If a task is subject to an Academic
Authenticity evaluation, a case-by-case determination may occur on whether the submission will count.
*Readmission students or Continuing Graduates are not considered new students and this policy does not apply.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 32
Students who do not complete at least one of the requirements listed above will be administratively withdrawn after the
45th day and will receive a prorated tuition refund in accordance with WGU’s Refund Policy. Any activity that occurs
before the first day of the term or after the 45th day cannot be considered a Critical Action. Students administratively
withdrawn under this policy will receive the transcript notation of “Dropped” on all registered courses.
Students will receive multiple email notifications if they are approaching the Critical Action deadline. Appeal information
is available at https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989.
WGU Grading System
WGU Transcripts include the following marks:
● Pass: Certifies successful completion of a course of study. A student has demonstrated required competencies by
passing the final assessment with a grade equivalent of B or better or 3.00 grade points on a 4.00 scale.
● Not Passed: Indicates that a student failed to complete a course of study in the time allotted. To meet program
requirements, the student generally re-enrolls for the course of study in a subsequent term.
● Requirement Satisfied: Recognizes that a student has satisfied the requirements of a course of study through
alternate coursework that may not be directly transferred.
● Transfer: Signifies that the student has completed equivalent coursework or holds certifications or licenses that
comply with Western Governors University transfer credit policies.
● Withdrawn: Represents that the student was withdrawn from the university or course before term completion.
● Dropped: Verifies that the course was dropped from term registration and is not included in attempted units.
● Incomplete: Indicates an arrangement between the university and the student to complete the course at a later
date. The entirety of the coursework has not been completed and/or the final assessment has been deferred.
The university does not calculate a grade point average (GPA), but its grading scheme means students receive between
a 3.0 and 4.0 on a 4.0-scale.
Grades are transcribed upon completion of a course of study. A course(s) of study in progress will not appear on the
transcript until the end of a term.
Note: Students receive a grade of Pass, Not Passed, Dropped, or Withdrawn on their permanent academic record and
transcript for any course(s) of study for which they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment.
An earned Pass or Not Passed is not replaced with a grade of Withdrawn. Grades of Not Passed and Withdrawn are
counted as units not completed and, as such, are counted against satisfactory academic progress.
Degree Plan
The degree plan, accessed via the my.wgu.edu student portal, serves as a student's blueprint of program requirements
(often called the standard path) and associated learning resources. The degree plan details all of a student's program
requirements and allows students and Program Mentors to work together in planning the path to graduation. The degree
plan displays the course details (including status, study plan, competencies covered, competency units, and
assessment/preassessment information) and start and end dates. Students access learning resources and make
requests to schedule objective assessments or begin performance assessments inside a course on their degree plan.
The standard path through a student's degree plan may be adjusted by the student and Program Mentor to meet the
student's individual needs during term enrollment. Students must be enrolled at least full time (12 competency units for
undergraduate students and 8 for graduate students). Once term enrollment is complete courses may not be removed.
Students, in consultation with their Program Mentor, may add additional courses to the term through the end of the fifth
month of the term. Courses will not be added until students have completed the original enrolled courses and then
courses may be added as time allows. Because students must complete all courses for which they are enrolled, they
should be sure they are prepared to take and pass all the courses for which they enroll. Students who enroll in a course
and either do not attempt or do not complete the course will receive a mark of Not Passed on their academic transcript.
Students who fail to establish term enrollment within the first 10 days of the new term or who cease all activity are
deemed inactive and are administratively withdrawn from the university.
The degree plan is the map to the assessments students need to complete and the learning resources they can use to
prepare. The degree plan includes details of the term; assessment types, statuses, and associated learning resources;
access to pre-assessments; and required completion dates. Specifics will be described in detail by the Program Mentor
and established during the first few weeks of the program.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 33
For more information on degree plans, visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/degree-plan.html or for
assessments, visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/assessments.html.
Courses of Study
The degree plan lists the courses of study required to complete an academic program. A course of study is comprised of
five important aspects:
● Defined competencies students are required to demonstrate
● Learning resources needed to gain the competencies
● Program Mentor and Instructor guidance during the development of the competencies
● Participation in a learning community centered on the competencies
● The assessments of the competencies
Each course of study is assigned a number of competency units (CUs).
Learning Unit
One (1) competency unit (CU) is equivalent to one (1) semester credit of learning. A CU is the value assigned to each
assessment to permit tracking of academic progress. Traditional classroom learning is based on the Carnegie Unit
where a credit hour is the equivalent of one clock hour of learning (generally considered 50 lecture minutes) per week
over the course of a 15-week semester. WGU competency units (CUs) are equivalent to semester hours at other
institutions. For example, one (1) CU equals one (1) semester hour of credit. In other terms, using the metric of three (3)
semester hours equaling 45 clock hours, one (1) CU is the equivalent of 15 clock hours. This equivalency has been
accepted by our external regulators and by other universities (for transfer of credits). WGU transcripts show the number
of CUs assigned to each course.
Term Enrollment
Term enrollment is the process of choosing courses and verifying enrollment for the term of study. During term
enrollment, students and their Program Mentor will map out which assessments to complete and the time frame in which
to do so by established start and end dates. Program Mentors will schedule at least the minimum number of competency
units required for full-time enrollment (12 units for undergraduate students, 8 units for graduate students). On-time
progress is based on how term enrollment is set each term.
Start and End Dates
To help students plan their progress through the term and to set a study schedule and calendar, students and their
Program Mentors will set start and end dates for each course. With these dates, students can plan how to accelerate or
where to spend more time in getting ready to demonstrate competency in an assessment area.
Computer Requirements
Students should use the following technical requirements to guide their selection of a technology package for use during
their academic program at WGU. Systems purchased new within the past two years will typically come with the following
recommended features. Students can check the technical readiness of their computer system by using the WGU
System Check tool to ensure they meet university requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/computer_requirements
Hardware Requirements
● 2 GHz processor or faster
● High-speed internet connection with minimum upload and download speeds of 3 Mbps
● 4 GB RAM or greater
● 64 GB system storage or larger
● Built-in or external speakers (Hard-wired or Bluetooth speakers are acceptable)
Note: Online Proctored Assessments will require a minimum of 3 Mbps internet connection.
Supported Operating Systems
● Windows 7 or higher* (College of Business undergraduates must have Windows 10 or higher)
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 34
● MacOS 10.13 or higher
*Microsoft is no longer supporting Windows 8. For those currently using Windows 8, a free upgrade to 8.1 is available.
Unsupported Operating Systems
● Chrome OS
● Linux
● Unix
Note: Google Chromebooks, tablets (Nexus, iPad, Tab, Note, etc.), Windows 10 S or Surface RT, smartphones, Linux,
and virtual machines are not allowed during online proctoring for objective assessments.
Software Requirements
● Microsoft Office 2016 or 365 (using the license and software suite provisioned by WGU to all students)
● WGU recommends that students have an up-to-date antivirus program
Supported Browsers
● Google Chrome
● Mozilla Firefox
● Apple Safari
Multimedia Apps and Plugins
● Adobe Reader or PDF reader of choice
● Adobe AIR
Note: WGU strongly encourages up-to-date browser versions which incorporate security fixes and newer technologies,
resulting in a better user experience.
External Webcam
Students are required to obtain an external web camera that meets certain technical specifications. A laptop's integrated
camera does not meet these requirements. Cameras MUST BE external and elevated to achieve required viewing
angle. Recommendations and specifications are listed in the student handbook (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-
Requirements/Computer-System-and-Technology-Requirements/ta-p/78).
Technology Recommendations
WGU students are required to use a number of third-party learning resources. System requirements for these resources
vary widely by program and assessment and may differ greatly from those listed above. Information Technology
students, in particular, may need to install specific applications that require a more powerful computer or a specific
operating system. If a student is concerned that their computer may not meet the minimum requirements for any third-
party learning resource or specific applications in the degree program, contact Student Services or the Service Desk for
more information.
Student Accessibility Services
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Services/Policies-and-Procedures-for-Students-with-Disabilities/ta-p/151
Western Governors University is committed to providing equal access to its academic programs to all qualified students.
The University’s Student Accessibility Services supports this commitment by providing support, resources, advocacy,
collaboration, and academic accommodations that conform to federal and state statutes and regulations.
WGU complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other
applicable disability discrimination laws. WGU is committed to providing reasonable accommodation(s) to qualified
disabled applicants and learners in WGU programs and activities as required by applicable law.
The determination of reasonable accommodation(s) for qualified students with disabilities, and compliance with the ADA
and the Rehabilitation Act, are the responsibility of WGU Student Accessibility Services. Student Accessibility Services
is the principal point of contact for all students with disability questions or concerns (ADAsupport@wgu.edu).
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 35
WGU encourages current and prospective students needing accommodation(s) and/or resources to contact Student
Accessibility Services for assistance. Student Accessibility Services will respond to requests for accommodation(s) in
accordance with the Policies and Procedures for Students with Disabilities published in the student handbook.
WGU complies with applicable laws concerning the confidentiality of disability-related health information and it is
committed to ensuring that all information regarding student health remains appropriately confidential; only Student
Accessibility Services has access to student health information. Student Accessibility Services retains student health
and accommodation information for the length of a student’s enrollment at WGU. If a student wishes to have a record
deleted during their enrollment, they must send a written request to Student Accessibility Services. Students may
authorize the release of disability information to people or organizations outside of WGU. Before providing such
authorization, students should understand the nature of the information to be released and the purpose. WGU may
infrequently be required by law to disclose disability information without student consent.
Student Complaint Process
The student complaint policy provides guidance on proper avenues for addressing university-related concerns. A
complaint is an expression of dissatisfaction arising from a student’s experience with or treatment by university
personnel or policies. A grievance is a complaint based on a perceived unfairness or discrimination. Academic and
financial appeals (i.e. issues related to competency assessments, academic progress, academic outcomes, financial
aid, payments, etc.) are NOT considered complaints and should be handled through the processes published by the
relevant departments. Please see student handbook article on Academic and Financial Appeals Information for a listing
of university appeals processes (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Academic-and-Financial-
Appeals-Information/ta-p/19084).
If a complaint involves any type of alleged discrimination or harassment in violation of the WGU Equal Opportunity,
Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes or the student wishes to remain anonymous, the
student or any other offended party may immediately make a formal complaint to the Title IX Coordinator per the
process outlined in the policy or through Speak Up WGU™.
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Equal-Opportunity-Harassment-and-Nondiscrimination-Policy-
and/ta-p/30767
Speak Up WGU™ online reporting site: www.speakupwgu.ethicspoint.com
Speak Up WGU™ hotline number: 1-(844) 838-1102
The full complaint policy (with information on student ombuds, informal complaints, formal complaints) can be viewed
here: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Student-Complaint-and-Grievance-Policy/ta-p/194
Academic Authenticity
Students are provided the following policy in the student handbook regarding the authenticity of their work:
WGU holds, as a core value, that respect for ideas and intellectual property rights is a critical value in academic
communities. All university community members share responsibility in ensuring that the authentic expression of those
ideas is observed.
“Academic Authenticity” means the ethical completion of WGU coursework. Examples include appropriately attributing
text, pictures, tables, and graphs used in coursework to the creators, and each student completing their own
coursework. Academic Authenticity is fundamental to the educational process at WGU.
The following policies apply to all WGU students and assessments regardless of location, and every WGU student is
expected to uphold these Academic Authenticity rules:
Intellectual Property
● Students may not use any information found, requested, or purchased on the Internet (or elsewhere) that may
include WGU assessment materials or responses to those materials (i.e., answers to assessment questions or
projects completed by someone else).
● Similarly, students may not create and/or transmit responses to assessments or projects, as those responses may
potentially be submitted to WGU or another institution by someone else.
● Students may not copy, record, or disclose WGU assessment or project material to anyone else. This includes
copying for personal use and disclosure on websites, blogs, and other social media.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 36
● Any previously completed Capstone Project from another WGU degree or another institution is not permitted to be
used to create and submit the Capstone Project for the degree in which the student is currently enrolled.
● Students may consent to have their capstone work archived for restricted view by other students and alumni. They
may also use and repurpose their capstone and other performance tasks for use when they graduate as an
electronic portfolio in furtherance of the academic or professional careers with care not to violate rules above.
Assessments
A. General
● Unless directed by official WGU course instructions to work with other students, all assessments and projects
must be the student’s own individual work. Students are not allowed to engage in unauthorized collaborative
efforts with or obtain assistance from, others at any point in the research, creation, completion, submission, or
revision of assessments.
● Students shall not falsify or deliberately misrepresent information submitted to meet the requirement of any
assessment.
B. Objective Assessment
● When taking a proctored WGU assessment, the student may not access any device or material not specifically
approved in advance, nor communicate with anyone except the proctor, this includes reading the questions aloud.
● Highlighting questions is against the policy as it is part of copying and pasting acts that can compromise the
integrity of WGU high-stakes assessments.
● All audio and video equipment must be in working order, and the student is required to remain in the view of the
proctor at all times.
C. Performance Assessment
● If students use material from any source, an appropriately formatted citation must be provided. To use the work of
another without proper citation is plagiarism and may lead to sanctions, including suspension or expulsion from
the university.
● All assessments and projects submitted by any WGU student will be evaluated for compliance with these rules. All
written work will be checked by WGU Evaluation Faculty, utilizing originality software, for evidence of plagiarism.
To protect each student’s identity, students are encouraged to remove all personal information, such as phone
numbers and addresses, from each assessment or project. The plagiarism checker will store a copy of all work
submitted to prevent its use by other students.
The Code of Student Conduct defines violations of this policy as "cheating" subject to sanctions up to and including
expulsion from the university. Student access to assessment scheduling or task submission may be locked while an
investigation of alleged violations of this policy is underway.
Code of Student Conduct
PREAMBLE
This Western Governors University (WGU) Code of Student Conduct is premised on the belief that respect for
individuals, ideas, and the authenticity of student work are all critical to a thriving academic community. Accordingly,
WGU holds that all members of the WGU community have a shared responsibility for ethical, responsible, and respectful
behavior and should comply in every respect with all applicable laws in addition to the rules WGU has set forth in this
Code of Student Conduct.
ARTICLE I: DEFINITIONS
1. The term “WGU” means Western Governors University.
2. The term “student” includes all persons in all locations taking courses at WGU either full time or part time,
pursuing undergraduate, graduate, or professional studies. Persons who withdraw after allegedly violating the
Student Code, those who are not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a continuing relationship
with WGU or those who have been notified of their acceptance for admission are considered “students”.
3. The term “faculty member” means any person hired by WGU to conduct learning activities or who is otherwise
considered by WGU to be a member of its faculty.
4. The term “WGU official” includes any person employed by WGU performing assigned administrative or
professional responsibilities.
5. The term “member of the WGU community” includes any person who is a student, alumni, faculty member,
WGU official and any other person employed by WGU including proctors, graders, coaches, and clinical
supervisors.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 37
6. The term “WGU premises” includes all land, buildings, facilities, portals, communities, and other property,
whether online or physical, in the possession of or owned, used, or controlled by WGU.
7. The term “Student Conduct Board” means any person or persons authorized by the Senior Manager of
Student Rights and Responsibilities to determine whether a student has violated the Student Code and to decide
sanctions that may be imposed when a rules violation has been committed. The chair, or co-chairs, of the
Student Conduct Board shall be appointed by the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
8. The term “Student Conduct Administrator” means a WGU official authorized on a case by case basis by the
Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities to investigate complaints, to advise the Student Conduct
Board, and to carry out sanctions imposed upon any student(s) found by the Student Conduct Board to have
violated the Student Code.
9. The term “Appellate Board” means any person or persons authorized by the Senior Manager of Student Rights
and Responsibilities to consider an appeal from the Student Conduct Board’s determination as to whether a
student has violated the Student Code or from the sanctions imposed by the Student Conduct Administrator.
10. The term “shall” is used in the imperative sense.
11. The term “may” is used in the permissive sense.
12. The Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities is that person designated by WGU’s President to be
responsible for the administration of the Student Code.
13. The term “policy” means the written regulations of WGU as found in, but not limited to the WGU Student
Handbook including this Student Code of Conduct and any student handbook specific to a WGU degree
program. All WGU policy is made continuously available to students on the university’s website.
14. The term “cheating” includes, but is not limited to: (1) using any information found, requested or purchased on
the Internet (or elsewhere) containing WGU assessment materials or responses to those materials (i.e., answers
to exam questions or projects responses created by someone else); (2) creating or transmitting responses to
WGU assessments or projects if you have reason to know those responses may be submitted to WGU by
someone else; (3) copying, recording and disclosing WGU assessment or project material for others’ use; (4)
accessing any device or materials not specifically approved in advance, or communicating with anyone except
the proctor when taking a proctored WGU assessment; and (5) working with others on assessments or projects
unless specifically directed by WGU; and (6) representing the work of others as your own without proper citation.
15. The term “plagiarism” includes, but is not limited to, the use, by paraphrase or direct quotation, of the
published or unpublished work of another person without full and clear acknowledgment. It also includes the
unacknowledged use of materials prepared by another person or agency engaged in the selling of term papers
or other academic materials.
16. The term “harassment” means the use of words, gestures, imagery, and other communication that creates a
hostile and intimidating environment to the degree that other members of the WGU community would choose not
to participate in communications, programs, or activities.
17. The term “identity misrepresentation” means the use of false, stolen or borrowed identification materials (e.g.,
driver’s license) to obtain: i) admission to WGU, ii) access to student financial aid, or iii) access to WGU
programs, assessments and other activities.
18. The term “Complainant” means any person who submits a charge alleging that a student violated this Student
Code. When a student believes that s/he has been a victim of another student’s misconduct, the student who
believes s/he has been a victim will have the same rights under this Student Code as are provided to the
Complainant, even if another member of the WGU community submitted the charge itself.
19. The term “Accused Student” means any student accused of violating this Student Code.
20. The term “Advisor” includes any member of the WGU community but the Advisor cannot be acting as an
attorney.
21. “Education Records” are broadly defined to include all records directly related to a student and are protected
from disclosure under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Disciplinary Records and
Academic Records are considered to be Education Records and as a result are kept confidential in accordance
with this law.
22. The “Disciplinary Record” includes a statement of charges, summary of information considered by or
presented to the Code of Conduct Board, findings or sanctions, records of appeals, and rationale for the
decisions.
23. The “Academic Record” is defined as information relating to a student’s academic performance including
transcripts, narrative notes of the student’s academic progress as documented by the student’s Program
Mentor(s) and Instructor(s), assessment and evaluation results, external exam scores, and results of any
appeals filed by the student.
24. The term “hazing” means any action or situation that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or
physical health or safety of a student for purposes, including, but not limited to, the purpose of initiation or
admission into or affiliation with any organization operating under the sanction of a postsecondary institution;
includes, but is not limited to pressuring or coercing the student into violating state or federal law; any brutality of
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 38
a physical nature, such as whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the elements, forced
consumption of any food, liquor, drug, or other substance, or other forced physical activity that which could
adversely affect the physical health or safety of the student; any activity that which would subject the student to
extreme mental stress, such as sleep deprivation, forced exclusion from social contact, forced conduct that
which could result in extreme embarrassment; other forced activity that which could adversely affect the mental
health or dignity of the student. Hazing does not include customary athletic events or other similar contests or
competitions or any activity or conduct that furthers a legal and legitimate objective.
ARTICLE II: STUDENT CODE AUTHORITY
1. The Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities shall determine the composition of the Student
Conduct Board and Appellate Boards and determine which Student Conduct Board, Student Conduct
Administrator and Appellate Board shall be authorized to hear each matter.
2. The Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities shall develop policies for the administration of the
student conduct system and procedural rules for the conduct of Student Conduct Board Hearings that are not
inconsistent with provisions of the Student Code.
3. Decisions made by the Student Conduct Board and/or Student Conduct Administrator designated by the Senior
Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities shall be final, pending the normal appeal process.
ARTICLE III: JURISDICTION OF WGU STUDENT CODE
WGU Student Code of Conduct shall apply to conduct that adversely affects the WGU Community and/or the pursuit of
its objectives. Each student shall be responsible for his/her conduct from the time of application for admission through
the actual awarding of a degree, even though conduct may occur before courses begin or after courses end, during
periods between terms of actual enrollment, and conduct that is not discovered until after a degree is awarded. The
Student Code shall apply to a student’s conduct even if the student withdraws from school while a disciplinary matter is
pending.
ARTICLE IV: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, HARASSMENT, AND NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY AND GRIEVANCE
PROCESSES
In addition to the Code of Student Conduct, all students at WGU are also subject to the University’s Equal Opportunity,
Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes which are separate from the Student Conduct
Code standards and procedures. The University’s Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy covers
behaviors related to discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, inducing incapacitation for sexual purposes,
sexual exploitation, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, and retaliation.
In cases where the provisions in the Student Conduct Code and the provisions in the Equal Opportunity, Harassment,
and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes are different or inconsistent, the Equal Opportunity,
Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes supersede. Therefore, all students are expected to
read the Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes, as well as the Code
of Student Conduct, to gain a thorough understanding of the expectations and procedures set forth in both processes
and the differences between the two.
When a student has been found in violation of the Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy, the
Title IX Coordinator and/or Decision-makers are charged with imposing disciplinary sanctions. Possible sanctions that
may be applied are the same as those described in the Student Conduct Code. Disciplinary records for Equal
Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination violations are maintained in the same manner as other disciplinary
records under the Student Conduct Code.
ARTICLE V: PROSCRIBED CONDUCT
A. Conduct—Rules and Regulations
Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following misconduct is subject to the
disciplinary sanctions outlined in Article VI:
1. Acts of dishonesty, including but not limited to the following (See Academic Authenticity):
● Cheating, plagiarism, or other forms of academic dishonesty.
● Identity misrepresentation.
● Furnishing false information to any WGU official, faculty member, or office.
● Forgery, alteration, or misuse of any WGU document, record, or instrument of identification.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 39
2. Disruption or obstruction of advising, facilitation, instruction, research, administration, disciplinary proceedings or
other WGU activities.
3. Unprofessional conduct including harassment, threatening, bullying or verbal abuse of any member of the WGU
community by any means (conduct, speech, written notes, electronic mail, etc.). This includes, but is not limited
to, the use of threats, profanity, and demeaning or intimidating comments.
4. Physical abuse, threats of physical abuse, and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or
safety of any person.
5. Illegal use, possession or distribution of alcohol or any controlled substance on university premises or at
university sponsored events.
6. Attempted or actual theft of and/or damage to property of WGU or property of a member of the WGU
community.
7. Failure to comply with directions of WGU officials or law enforcement officers acting in performance of their
duties and/or failure to identify oneself to these persons when requested to do so.
8. Failure to conform to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the Teachers College Code of Ethics,
Professional Behaviors and Dispositions, the CHP Code of Professional Conduct and Dispositions, the CHP
Nursing Code of Professional Conduct and Dispositions, and similar standards of professional conduct
associated with other WGU field experience programs.
9. Violation of any WGU policy.
10. Violation of any federal, state or local law.
11. Illegal or unauthorized possession of firearms, explosives, other weapons, or dangerous chemicals on WGU
premises or use of any such item, even if legally possessed, in a manner that harms, threatens or causes fear to
others.
12. Theft, abuse or misuse of WGU computing, information and communication systems (“WGU systems”) and/or
protected WGU information, files and resources (“WGU resources”) including but not limited to:
● Unauthorized entry into WGU resources to use, read, or change the contents, or for any other purpose.
● Unauthorized transfer of WGU resources.
● Use of another individual’s user name and/or password.
● Use of WGU systems to interfere with the work of another member of the WGU community.
● Use of WGU systems to send obscene or harassing messages.
● Interfering with the normal operation of WGU systems and WGU resources.
● Use of WGU resources in violation of WGU’s Student License Agreement for use of learning resources.
● Any violation of the WGU Systems Use Policy.
● Unauthorized use of WGU systems and WGU resources to obtain or disclose the personal details of
another member of the WGU community.
● Tampering with communications.
13. Abuse of the Student Conduct System, including but not limited to:
● Failure to obey a notice from the Student Conduct Board or WGU official to appear for a meeting or
hearing as part of the Student Conduct System.
● Falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation of information before Student Conduct Board.
● Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a Student Conduct Board proceeding.
● Institution of a student conduct code proceeding in bad faith.
● Attempting to discourage an individual’s proper participating in, or use of, the student conduct system.
● Attempting to influence the impartiality of a member of the Student Conduct Board prior to, and/or during
the course of, the Student Conduct Board proceeding.
● Harassment (verbal or physical) and/or intimidation of a member of the Student Conduct Board prior to,
during, and/or after a student conduct code proceeding.
● Failure to comply with the sanction(s) imposed under the Student Code.
● Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse of the student conduct code
system.
B. Attempts and Complicity
Attempts to commit acts prohibited by the Student Conduct Code, and/or knowingly or willfully encouraging or assisting
others to commit any of these acts, are also prohibited and may be adjudicated in the same manner.
C. Violation of Law and WGU Discipline
WGU disciplinary proceedings may be instituted against a student charged with conduct that potentially violates both the
criminal law and this Student Code (that is, if both possible violations result from the same factual situation) without
regard to the pendency of civil or criminal litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution. Proceedings under this
Student Code may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal proceedings at the discretion
of the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Determinations made or sanctions imposed under this
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 40
Student Code shall not be subject to change because criminal charges arising out of the same facts giving rise to
violation of university rules were dismissed, reduced, or resolved in favor of or against the criminal law defendant.
ARTICLE VI: STUDENT CONDUCT CODE PROCEDURES
A. Charges and Student Conduct Board Hearings
1. Any member of the WGU community may file charges against a student for violations of the Student Code. A
charge must be submitted in writing and directed to the Student Conduct Administrator. Any charge should be
submitted as soon as possible after the event takes place or is discovered, preferably within the same academic
term or 90 days, whichever is later. The Student Conduct Board retains the right to review all work submitted to
WGU. The Student Conduct Administrator may conduct an investigation to determine if the charges have merit
and/or if they can be disposed of administratively by mutual consent of the parties involved on a basis acceptable
to the Student Conduct Administrator. Such disposition shall be final and there shall be no subsequent
proceedings. If the student admits violating institutional rules, but sanctions are not agreed to, subsequent
process, including hearing if necessary, shall be limited to determining the appropriate sanction(s).
2. All charges shall be presented to the Accused Student in written form. A time shall be set for the Student
Conduct Board Hearing, not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15) calendar days after the student has been
notified. Maximum time limits for scheduling of Student Conduct Board Hearings may be extended at the
discretion of the Student Conduct Administrator.
3. Student Conduct Board hearings shall be conducted by telephone conference according to the following
guidelines:
● Student Conduct Board Hearings normally shall be conducted in private.
● The Complainant, Accused Student and their advisors, if any, shall be allowed to attend the entire portion of
the Student Conduct Board Hearing at which information is received (excluding deliberations). Admission
of any other person to the Student Conduct Board Hearing shall be at the discretion of the Student Conduct
Board and/or its Student Conduct Administrator.
● In Student Conduct Board hearings involving more than one Accused Student, the Student Conduct
Administrator, in his or her discretion, may permit the Student Conduct Board Hearings concerning each
student to be conducted either separately or jointly.
● The Complainant and the Accused Student may, upon five (5) days advance written notice to WGU, be
assisted by an advisor they choose. The advisor must be a member of the WGU community and may not
be acting in the capacity of an attorney. If the Complainant and/or the Accused Student fail to provide a
minimum of five (5) days notice the Student Conduct Board hearing may be rescheduled.
● The Complainant and/or the Accused Student is responsible for presenting his or her own information, and
therefore, advisors are not permitted to speak or to participate directly in any Student Conduct Board
hearing. A student should select as an advisor a person whose schedule allows attendance at the
scheduled date and time for the Student Conduct Board Hearing; delays will not normally be allowed due to
the scheduling conflicts of an advisor.
● The Complainant, the Accused Student and the Student Conduct Board may arrange for witnesses to
present pertinent information to the Student Conduct Board. At the discretion of the Student Conduct
Administrator, WGU will try to arrange the attendance of witnesses who are members of the WGU
community, provided such witnesses are identified by the Complainant and/or Accused Student at least five
business days prior to the hearing. Witnesses will provide information to, and answer questions from, the
Student Conduct Board. Questions may be suggested by the Accused Student and/or Complainant to be
answered by each other or by other witnesses. This will be conducted by the Student Conduct Board with
such questions directed to the chairperson, rather than to the witness directly. This method is used to
preserve the educational tone of the hearing and to avoid creation of an adversarial environment.
Questions of whether potential information will be received shall be resolved in the discretion of the
chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
● Pertinent records, exhibits, and written statements may be accepted as information for consideration by the
Student Conduct Board at the discretion of the chairperson.
● All procedural questions are subject to the final decision of the chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
● After the portion of the Student Conduct Board Hearing concludes in which all pertinent information has
been received, the Student Conduct Board shall determine by consensus whether the Accused Student has
violated each section of the Student Code which the student is charged with violating.
● The Student Conduct Board‘s determination shall be made on the basis clear and convincing evidence
(substantially more likely than not) that the Accused Student violated the Student Code.
● Formal rules of process, procedure, and/or technical rules of evidence, such as are applied in criminal or
civil court, are not used in Student Code proceedings.
4. There shall be a single verbatim record, such as an audio recording, of all Student Conduct Board Hearings,
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 41
however the Board’s deliberations shall not be recorded. The record shall be the property of WGU and will
become part of the Accused Student’s Disciplinary Record and will be maintained on file for seven (7) years
following the last date of academic activity. Records for students that are suspended or expelled from the
university will be kept indefinitely.
5. If an Accused Student who has been provided appropriate notice, does not attend the Student Conduct Board
Hearing, the information in support of the charges shall be presented and considered even if the Accused Student
is not present.
6. The Student Conduct Board may accommodate concerns for the personal safety, well-being, and/or fears of
confrontation of the Complainant or witnesses during the hearing by permitting participation by separate meeting,
separate telephone line, written statement, or other means, where determined to be appropriate by the Student
Conduct Administrator.
B. Sanctions
1. Depending upon a student’s history of misconduct and the severity of the conduct at issue, the Student Conduct
Board may direct the Student Conduct Administrator to impose any of the following sanctions upon a student
found to have violated the rules of conduct described in Article V(A):
● Level 1 Warning—A written (email) notice that a student’s conduct is violating or has violated the rules of
conduct.
● Level 2 Warning—A written notice indicating that a student’s conduct is violating or has violated the rules of
conduct and includes an improvement plan that will demonstrate conduct conforming to the Student Code
of Conduct within a specified time period. A Level 2 Warning includes the probability of more severe
sanctions for any subsequent violation of the rules of conduct.
● Loss of Privileges—A written notice of the denial of specified privileges for a designated period of time.
● Restitution—Compensation for loss, damage, or injury. This may take the form of appropriate service
and/or monetary or material replacement.
● Discretionary Sanctions—Work assignments, essays, service to WGU or other related discretionary
assignments.
● Disciplinary Suspension—Separation of the student from WGU for a definite period of time, after which the
student is eligible to return. Conditions for readmission may be specified.
● Removal from Academic Program – Removal of the student from her/his chosen academic program for
behaviors not conforming to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the WGU Teacher’s College
Code of Ethics, the WGU Nursing College Code of Ethics, and similar standards of professional conduct
associated with other WGU licensure programs. WGU may, in its discretion, suggest one or more
alternative academic programs. If an alternative program is not acceptable to the student, he or she will be
subject to administrative withdrawal.
● Disciplinary Expulsion—Permanent separation of the student from WGU without the possibility of
readmission.
● Revocation of transcripted grades and/or assessment results – Grades or assessment results that are
considered part of the student’s Academic Record may be amended.
● Revocation of Admission and/or Degree—Admission to, or a degree awarded from WGU may be revoked
for fraud, misrepresentation, or other violation of WGU standards in obtaining the degree, or for other
serious violations committed by a student prior to graduation.
● Withholding Degree—WGU may withhold awarding a degree otherwise earned until the completion of the
process set forth in this Student Conduct Code, including the completion of all sanctions imposed, if any.
2. More than one of the sanctions listed above may be imposed for any single violation.
3. (a) Disciplinary expulsion, removal from academic program or revocation or withholding of a degree are part of
the student’s permanent academic record. Other disciplinary sanctions shall not be made part of the student’s
permanent academic record, but shall become part of the student’s disciplinary record. (b) In situations involving
both an Accused Student and a student claiming to be the victim of another student’s conduct, the records of the
process and of the sanctions imposed, if any, shall be considered to be the academic records of both the
Accused Student(s) and the student(s) claiming to be the victim because the educational career and chances of
success in the academic community of each may be impacted.
4. Following the Student Conduct Board hearing, the Student Conduct Administrator shall advise the Accused
Student and the Complainant in writing of the Board’s determination and of the sanction(s) imposed, if any.
C. Administrative Holds
If a student fails to respond to a complaint or complete educational sanctions as required, an administrative hold shall be
placed on the student’s record by the Office of Student Conduct to ensure cooperation with the disciplinary process. In
most cases an administrative hold will not prevent a student from completing coursework in the current term, but the
student will be prevented from registering in additional courses or obtaining a degree. Depending on the severity of the
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 42
charges, the Conduct Administrator may also institute an administrative hold pending the outcome of proceedings.
D. Interim Suspension
In certain circumstances, the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities, or a designee, may impose a
WGU suspension prior to the Student Conduct Board Hearing before the Student Conduct Board.
Interim suspension may be imposed: (a) to ensure the safety and wellbeing of members of WGU community or
preservation of WGU property; (b) to ensure the student’s own physical or emotional safety and wellbeing; or (c) if the
Accused Student poses an ongoing threat of disruption of, or interference with, the normal operations of WGU.
During the interim suspension, an Accused Student shall be denied access to some or all WGU systems or privileges for
which the Accused Student might otherwise be eligible, as the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities or
the Student Conduct Administrator may determine to be appropriate for the purposes of investigation.
The interim suspension does not replace the regular process, which shall proceed on the normal schedule, up to and
through the Student Conduct Board Hearing, if required.
The Accused Student shall be notified in writing of this action and the reasons for the suspension. The notice shall
include the time, date, and place of a subsequent hearing at which the Accused Student may show cause why his or her
continued use of the WGU systems or privileges does not constitute a threat [and at which they may contest whether a
WGU rule was violated]. Time lost within the term while the student is on interim suspension may not be added back to
the end of the term in the form of a term extension or incomplete grade.
E. Appeals
1. A decision reached by the Student Conduct Board or a sanction imposed by the Student Conduct Administrator
may be appealed by the Accused Student(s) or Complainant(s) to the Appellate Board within five (5) business
days of the decision. Such appeals shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Student Conduct
Administrator or his or her designee.
2. Except as required to explain the basis of new information, an appeal shall be limited to a review of the verbatim
record of the Student Conduct Board Hearing and supporting documents for one or more of the following
purposes:
● To determine whether the Student Conduct Board Hearing was conducted fairly in light of the charges and
information presented, and in conformity with prescribed procedures giving the complaining party a
reasonable opportunity to prepare and to present information that the Student Code was violated, and
giving the Accused Student a reasonable opportunity to prepare and to present a response to those
allegations. Deviations from designated procedures will not be a basis for sustaining an appeal unless
significant prejudice results.
● To determine whether the decision reached regarding the Accused Student was based on substantial
information, that is, whether there were facts in the case that, if believed by the fact finder, were sufficient to
establish that a violation of the Student Code occurred. To determine whether the sanction(s) imposed were
appropriate for the violation of the Student Code which the student was found to have committed.
● To consider new information, sufficient to alter a decision or other relevant facts not brought out in the
original hearing, because such information and/or facts were not known to the person appealing at the time
of the original Student Conduct Board Hearing.
3. If an appeal is upheld by the Appellate Board, the matter shall be returned to the original Student Conduct Board
and Student Conduct Administrator for reopening of Student Conduct Board Hearing to allow reconsideration of
the original determination and/or sanction(s). If an appeal is not upheld, the matter shall be considered final and
binding upon all involved.
ARTICLE VII: INTERPRETATION AND REVISION
1. Any question of interpretation or application of the Student Code shall be referred to the Senior Manager of
Student Rights and Responsibilities or his or her designee for final determination.
2. The Student Code shall be reviewed every two (2) years under the direction or discretion of the Senior Manager
of Student Rights and Responsibilities. In the interim this code may be amended at any time upon appropriate
notice to students. Suggested revisions may be made to the Student Conduct Administrator to be reviewed by a
panel assigned by the Senior Manager of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 43
Academic Programs
College of Business
● B.S. Business Administration—Accounting
● B.S. Business Administration—Healthcare Management
● B.S. Business Administration—Human Resource Management
● B.S. Business Administration—Information Technology Management
● B.S. Business Administration—Management
● B.S. Business Administration—Marketing
● Master of Business Administration (MBA)
● MBA Information Technology Management
● MBA Healthcare Management
● M.S. Management and Leadership
● M.S. Accounting
College of Health Professions
● B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure)
● B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN)
● B.S. Health Information Management
● B.S. Health Services Coordination
● M.S. Nursing—Family Nurse Practitioner
● M.S. Nursing—Education
● M.S. Nursing—Leadership and Management
● M.S. Nursing—Nursing Informatics
● M.S. Nursing—Education (RN to MSN)
● M.S. Nursing—Leadership and Management (RN to MSN)
● M.S. Nursing—Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN)
● Master of Health Leadership
● Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing—Education
● Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing—Leadership and Management
College of Information Technology
● B.S. Cloud Computing
● B.S. Computer Science
● B.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
● B.S. Data Management/Data Analytics
● B.S. Information Technology
● B.S. Network Operations and Security
● B.S. Software Development
● M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
● M.S. Data Analytics
● M.S. Information Technology Management
Teachers College
Bachelor's Degrees with Licensure:
● B.A. Elementary Education
● B.A. Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure)
● B.A. Special Education (Mild to Moderate)
● B.S. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
● B.S. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
● B.S. Science Education (Middle Grades)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
● B.S. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 44
Master's Degrees with Licensure:
● M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education
● M.A. Teaching, English Education (Secondary)
● M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
● M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
● M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary)
● M.A. Teaching, Special Education
Master's Degrees for Already-Licensed Teachers:
● M.S. Curriculum and Instruction
● M.S. Educational Leadership
● M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
● M.Ed. Instructional Design
● M.Ed. Learning and Technology
● M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6)
● M.A. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
● M.A. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
● M.A. Science Education (Middle Grades)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
● M.A. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
Endorsement Programs:
● Endorsement Preparation Program in English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
WGU publishes all available programs on the university website (http://www.wgu.edu/degrees_and_programs).
WGU’s public website provides access to a description of every degree program offered by the university, and each
description includes the requirements to be met for satisfactory completion.
Each degree listing includes an overview of the program and the program’s standard path. The standard path outlines
degree requirements (assessments and associated courses of study), the order in which requirements should be
completed, and the associated competency units (credits) by term.
A WGU course is an organized learning resource, comparable to a traditional course syllabus, and containing a week-
by-week pacing component with a focus on helping students navigate independent learning resources in an efficient
way. Each assessment in the standard path has a related course to guide students in acquiring the skills, knowledge,
and abilities needed to pass the assessment.
Please refer to the standard paths below. Information provided for each course includes: the Assessment/Course Code;
the Course Name; and the competency unit(s) earned when the assessment is passed. Example: C455 – English
Composition I (3).
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 45
College of Business
College of Business Tenets:
● Impact: We are a global force for good; our shared purpose is to improve the lives of people and society through
a transformative business education that emphasizes sustainability and ethical action.
● Student Success: We optimize student attainment across a diverse array of learner populations by personalizing
learning experiences, building relationships, and customizing support.
● Inclusive Learning: We embrace diversity and equity by acknowledging the needs of underserved communities.
We create an inclusive and supportive environment for both students and staff.
● Accessibility: We drive affordability and expand access through cost-conscious decision-making. We scale
technology to address the challenges of students’ digital access.
● Relevant Curricula: We design innovative, high-quality, industry-relevant curricula through continuous
improvement and deliver rigorous, skills-based learning experiences that increase the ROI for our students.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 46
Bachelor of Science Business Administration, Accounting
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Major in Accounting is a competency-based program that
prepares graduates for a wide variety of careers in the field of accounting in public, private and non-profit entities. The
Accounting program combines general business competencies with a specialized set of in-depth technical accounting
competencies. These prepare graduates for positions such as staff accountant, general ledger accountant, tax
associate, or auditor. The competencies in the Accounting program help you develop the skills necessary for
leadership positions in accountings such as accounting manager, assistant controller, or controller.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2510 D073 Best Practices in Management: Projects, Staffing, Scheduling, 4 1
and Budgeting
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting 3 1
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 2
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management Essentials 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 2
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 3
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and 2 3
Legal Environment
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and 2 3
Operations
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 3
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
BUS 2110 D083 Business Core Capstone: An Integrated Application 4 4
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
ACCT 2313 D102 Financial Accounting 3 5
ACCT 3630 C237 Taxation I 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
ACCT 3314 D101 Cost and Managerial Accounting 3 6
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 6
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 6
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 7
ACCT 3350 D216 Business Law for Accountants 3 7
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
BSBAAC 202103 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 47
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 8
ACCT 3611 D103 Intermediate Accounting I 3 8
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 8
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 8
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 9
ACCT 3621 D104 Intermediate Accounting II 3 9
ACCT 3360 D217 Accounting Information Systems 3 9
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 9
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 10
ACCT 3650 D105 Intermediate Accounting III 3 10
ACCT 3340 D215 Auditing 3 10
Total CUs: 121
BSBAAC 202103 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 48
Bachelor of Science Business Administration, Healthcare Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Major in Healthcare Management is a competency-based
program that prepares graduates for a variety of administrative and management careers in the healthcare industry.
Graduates with a major in Healthcare Management will combine a set of general business competencies with a set of
in-depth competencies from the field of healthcare management. These competencies align with a variety of entry-
level non-clinical and healthcare service managerial positions at skilled nursing facilities, residential care facilities,
small to large healthcare facilities, insurance companies, and community health organizations; as well as organizations
focused on developing, manufacturing, and providing medical related products or services, case management
organizations and the financial services sector of the healthcare industry.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2510 D073 Best Practices in Management: Projects, Staffing, Scheduling, 4 1
and Budgeting
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting 3 1
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 2
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management Essentials 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 2
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 3
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and 2 3
Legal Environment
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and 2 3
Operations
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 3
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
BUS 2110 D083 Business Core Capstone: An Integrated Application 4 4
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 5
HCM 2110 C425 Healthcare Delivery Systems, Regulation, and Compliance 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
HCM 2310 C427 Technology Applications in Healthcare 3 5
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
HCM 2210 C426 Healthcare Values and Ethics 3 6
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 6
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 7
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 7
BSBAHC 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 49
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 7
HCM 3210 C429 Healthcare Operations Management 3 7
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 8
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 8
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 8
HCM 3410 C431 Healthcare Research and Statistics 3 8
HCM 3310 C430 Healthcare Quality Improvement and Risk Management 3 9
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 9
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 9
HCM 3510 C432 Healthcare Management and Strategy 3 9
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 10
HCM 3110 C428 Financial Resource Management in Healthcare 3 10
HCM 2910 C439 Healthcare Management Capstone 4 10
Total CUs: 122
BSBAHC 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 50
Bachelor of Science Business Administration, Human Resource Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Major in Human Resource Management is a competency-
based program that prepares graduates for a variety of careers in the fields of human capital management and people
and talent. Graduates with a major in Human Resource Management will combine a set of general business
competencies with a set of in-depth competencies from the field of HRM. These competencies align with a variety of
positions as human resource managers, personnel directors, people and talent managers, and benefits and
compensation specialists. The program content has also been certified by the Society for Human Resource
Management as aligning with their body of knowledge and helps prepares students for the pursuit of a SHRM
professional certification. The program is also aligned with Human Resource Certification Institute (HRCI) curriculum
standards and helps prepare students for the pursuit of the Professional in Human Resources (PHR) exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2510 D073 Best Practices in Management: Projects, Staffing, Scheduling, 4 1
and Budgeting
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting 3 1
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 2
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management Essentials 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 2
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 3
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and 2 3
Legal Environment
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and 2 3
Operations
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 3
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
BUS 2110 D083 Business Core Capstone: An Integrated Application 4 4
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 5
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 5
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 5
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 5
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 6
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 6
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 6
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 6
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 7
HCM 2110 C425 Healthcare Delivery Systems, Regulation, and Compliance 3 7
BSBAHR 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 51
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 7
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 7
HCM 2210 C426 Healthcare Values and Ethics 3 8
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 8
HCM 2310 C427 Technology Applications in Healthcare 3 8
HRM 3500 C235 Training and Development 3 8
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 9
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 9
BUS 4800 HMP1 Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management 3 9
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 10
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 10
BUS 4880 QET1 Business - HR Management Capstone Project 4 10
Total CUs: 122
BSBAHR 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 52
Bachelor of Science Business Administration, Information Technology Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Major in Information Technology Management is a
competency-based program that prepares graduates for careers in a variety of businesses involving the management
of information technology resources and information technology professionals. Graduates with a major in Information
Technology Management will combine a set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth competencies
from the field of ITM. These competencies align with a variety of positions such as IT project manager, director of
customer service, data center manager, or equivalent positions.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2510 D073 Best Practices in Management: Projects, Staffing, Scheduling, 4 1
and Budgeting
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting 3 1
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 2
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management Essentials 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 2
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 3
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and 2 3
Legal Environment
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and 2 3
Operations
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 3
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
BUS 2110 D083 Business Core Capstone: An Integrated Application 4 4
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 5
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 6
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 6
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 6
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 6
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 7
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 7
BSBAIT 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 53
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 8
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 8
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 8
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 8
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 9
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 9
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 9
BUS 4891 PFIT Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement 3 10
BUS 4890 QFT1 Business - IT Management Capstone Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSBAIT 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 54
Bachelor of Science Business Administration, Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Major in Management is a competency-based program that
prepares graduates for a variety of careers in the field of business as an entry to intermediate level manager.
Graduates with a major in Management will combine a set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth
competencies from the field of management. These competencies align with the management of process, people and
resources and are an excellent precursor for entry into an MBA program.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2510 D073 Best Practices in Management: Projects, Staffing, Scheduling, 4 1
and Budgeting
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting 3 1
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 2
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management Essentials 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 2
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 3
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and 2 3
Legal Environment
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and 2 3
Operations
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 3
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
BUS 2110 D083 Business Core Capstone: An Integrated Application 4 4
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 5
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 5
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 6
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 6
ACCT 2313 D102 Financial Accounting 3 6
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 7
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 7
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 7
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 7
BSBAMGC 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 55
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HRM 3500 C235 Training and Development 3 8
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 8
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 8
BUS 3130 D099 Sales Management 3 8
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 9
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 9
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 9
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 10
BUS 4840 QGT1 Business Management Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSBAMGC 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 56
Bachelor of Science Business Administration, Marketing
The Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a Major in Marketing is a competency-based program that
prepares graduates for a career in the fields of marketing and sales across a variety of business types. Graduates with
a major in Marketing will combine a set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth competencies from
the field of marketing. These competencies align with a variety of positions in marketing, brand management, sales
and digital marketing.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2510 D073 Best Practices in Management: Projects, Staffing, Scheduling, 4 1
and Budgeting
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting 3 1
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 2
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management Essentials 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 2
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 3
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and 2 3
Legal Environment
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and 2 3
Operations
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 3
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
BUS 2110 D083 Business Core Capstone: An Integrated Application 4 4
MKTG 2150 D174 Marketing Management 3 5
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 5
MKTG 3850 D175 Consumer Behavior 3 6
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 6
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 6
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 7
BUS 3120 D098 Digital Marketing 3 7
MKTG 3860 D176 Content Marketing 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
BSBAMK 202012 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 57
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MKTG 3870 D177 Brand Management 3 8
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 8
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 8
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 8
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 9
BUS 3130 D099 Sales Management 3 9
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 9
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 10
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 10
BUS 3880 D178 Marketing Strategy and Analytics 3 10
Total CUs: 121
BSBAMK 202012 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 58
Master of Business Administration
The Master of Business Administration program is specifically designed for experienced business professionals and
managers seeking upward career mobility or professionals who want to broaden their business knowledge.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MGMT 6020 C215 Operations Management 3 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
MGMT 6900 C216 MBA Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 34
MBA 201404 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 59
MBA, IT Management
The Master of Business Administration-Information Technology Management is specifically designed for experienced
business professionals and managers seeking upward career mobility in the information technology arena. The
program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-level information technology management position in business,
industry, and non-profit organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
ITM 5000 MGT2 IT Project Management 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ITM 6000 MMT2 IT Strategic Solutions 4 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
ITM 6900 C218 MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 35
MBAITM 201408 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 60
MBA, Healthcare Management
The Master of Business Administration Healthcare Management is specifically designed for those in an array of
leadership roles as well as those transitioning into healthcare from a different industry to develop strong health care
leaders by strengthening your analytical and critical thinking skills. The program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-
level management position in private and public sectors of the healthcare industry including hospitals, health system
management, consulting, physician practices, and government and non-government agencies.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 6020 C215 Operations Management 3 1
HCM 5000 AFT2 Accreditation Audit 4 1
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 3
HCM 6000 AMT2 Service Line Development 4 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
HCM 6900 C219 MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 36
MBAHM 201802 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 61
Master of Science, Management and Leadership
The Master of Science, Management and Leadership degree program focuses on management and leadership skills
that can be applied to multiple settings, including business, government, non-profit, or education. The program
prepares you with knowledge and skills to lead through collaboration, team building, interpersonal communication and
virtual environments. You will learn applicable leadership skills to foster creativity, innovation and change. The
program includes topics such as organizational planning, leadership, conflict resolution and negotiation,
communication and other management skills. You will enhance your ability to manage in a dynamic business
environment that promotes growth, creativity and innovation. You will demonstrate the essential leadership practices of
inspiring a vision, encouraging others to act, data-driven strategic planning, ethical reasoning, negotiation, critical
thinking, and complex problem solving, which are all necessary to be successful leaders.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 5020 C203 Becoming an Effective Leader 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
BUS 5000 C201 Business Acumen 3 2
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
MGMT 5030 C205 Leading Teams 3 3
MGMT 6040 C208 Change Management and Innovation 3 3
MGMT 6050 C209 Strategic Management 3 3
MGMT 6910 C210 Management and Leadership Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 31
MSML 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 62
Master of Science, Accounting
The Master of Science in Accounting (MAcc) degree provides the advanced accounting knowledge and skills that you
need for a successful career as a professional accountant in public accounting, industry, government and non-profit
organizations. A primary objective of the masters program is to build on the knowledge gained in an undergraduate
accounting program and help prepare you to sit for the CPA (Certified Public Accountant) exam*, the Certified
Management Accounting (CMA) exam, and the Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) exam. This program focuses not only
on the technical and analytical skills necessary for accounting positions, but also incorporates critical communication
and strategic skills required in todays fast changing world. You will learn to assess complex transactions and
determine the proper treatment of those transactions in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP). You will also learn advanced auditing skills to be able to enhance internal controls of an organization and
identify material weaknesses in those controls. You will develop and be able to apply advanced managerial accounting
techniques in real-world situations as well as become familiar with the accounting for governmental and nonprofit
organizations. At the end of this program, you will have gained necessary analytical skills to address complex financial
information and make appropriate recommendations to management. * Students may need to meet additional state-
specific requirements to be eligible to sit for the CPA exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ACCT 6000 C254 Fraud and Forensic Accounting 3 1
ACCT 6201 D251 Advanced Auditing 3 1
ACCT 5300 C253 Advanced Managerial Accounting 3 1
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 2
MGMT 6050 C209 Strategic Management 3 2
ACCT 5100 C243 Advanced Financial Accounting 3 2
ACCT 6301 D252 Accounting Research and Critical Thinking 3 3
ACCT 5201 D250 Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting 3 3
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 3
ACCT 6100 C239 Advanced Tax Concepts 3 4
Total CUs: 30
MACC 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 63
College of Health Professions
College of Health Professions Tenets:
● Each student is unique. We align our systems and resources using Learner-Centered Faculty (LCF) tools to
support each personal journey toward graduation and success in their chosen healthcare career.
● Access matters. The lack of diversity in ethnicity and gender in the healthcare workforce contributes to the
continued disparities in health outcomes. We create access for diverse populations through onramps and visible
career pathways to change the composition of the healthcare workforce and improve health outcomes.
● Equity is an opportunity equalizer. We eliminate barriers and allocate resources to provide equity in access and
education for our learners, so they demonstrate equity in the care and services they provide as graduates. We
focus on improving fairness and eliminating bias in teaching and learning.
● Data matters. Our insights come from examining (and improving) processes at the program level and every level
of the college using the lens of our learner populations as our guide. Disparities in learner outcomes signal
needed changes in student support and data informs our ability to adjust in agile ways.
● Our learning products power the healthcare workforce. We continually evaluate the learning needs of the
healthcare industry and diversify our portfolio to include in-demand health professions degrees, microcredentials
and other learning products that position students for career success and provide needed talent to employers.
● Value and affordability are of equal importance. High quality, accredited health professions education requires
validation of competencies for patient and system engagement through supervised field experiences. We ensure
that learners are well prepared for the complexities of practice and carefully evaluate costs, so students have an
affordable, relevant education while ensuring quality and college sustainability.
● Partnerships accelerate our impact. We accelerate our reach and impact through mutually beneficial
partnerships. These relationships include donors, employers, educational institutions and healthcare industry
organizations and associations.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 64
Bachelor of Science, Nursing
The prelicensure BSN degree focuses on contemporary nursing practices to build nursing skills and competencies
using technology-based learning. It is structured to develop competent, BSN nurses in a program that is sustainable,
scalable, and nationally relevant. The prelicensure BSN program includes a strategic partnership between the Western
Governors University Nursing Program and healthcare employers who provide practice sites and clinical coaches.
Graduates are prepared to function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings. The prelicensure
BSN program includes the study of medical-surgical (including critical care), psychiatric/mental health, pediatrics,
obstetrics, and community health nursing and includes courses on evidence-based practice, research, leadership,
nursing informatics, and professional nursing roles and values. Graduates are eligible to apply to take the NCLEX-RN
exam for state licensure and be prepared to seek nursing positions for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA
appointments as well as assume roles in school, community, and occupational health, and other acute and non-acute
care settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MS, Nursing programs. This degree program includes online
and distance learning plus high fidelity simulation labs and hands on clinical experiences. The WGU prelicensure BS,
Nursing program is evidence-based and developed according to The Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for
Professional Practice from the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2008) (click here to view). In addition, it
incorporates competencies and standards from professional organizations and state regulations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 2
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 2
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 2
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 3
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 4
NURS 2211 C825 Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science 3 4
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 4
NURS 2410 C486 Organizational Systems: Safety and Regulation 1 4
NURS 2710 C466 Medication Dosage Calculations 1 4
NURS 2060 C467 Pharmacology 2 4
NURS 3510 C468 Information Management and the Application of Technology 3 5
NURS 3210 C469 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I 4 5
NURS 3215 C470 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical 2 5
Learning
NURS 3100 C492 Physical Assessment 4 5
NURS 3220 C471 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II 4 6
NURS 3225 C472 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II Clinical 2 6
Learning
NURS 3230 C473 Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses 3 6
BSRN 201611 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 65
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 3235 C474 Clinical Learning for Complex Illnesses in Adults 3 6
NURS 2015 C304 Professional Roles and Values 3 7
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 7
NURS 4250 C476 Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing 3 7
NURS 4251 C487 Psych/Mental Health Clinical 2 7
NURS 3310 C465 Care of the Developing Family 4 7
NURS 3320 C477 Nursing Care of Children 4 8
NURS 3418 C826 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 8
NURS 3420 C230 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Clinical 2 8
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 8
NURS 4220 C488 Critical Care Nursing 4 9
NURS 4225 C478 Critical Care Nursing Clinical Learning 2 9
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 9
NURS 4911 C490 Professional Nursing Role Transition 3 9
NURS 4800 C491 Nursing Clinical Practicum 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSRN 201611 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 66
Bachelor of Science, Nursing
The RN to BSN degree builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma
levels. Initial licensure programs prepare graduates for RN licensure with courses in the biological and social sciences
and nursing. The BSN degree for RNs expands knowledge in areas of research, theory, leadership, community
concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in healthcare. Graduates are prepared to
function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings. Graduates are eligible for military, U.S. Public
Health, and VA appointments as well as roles in school health, community, occupational, and other non-acute care
settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MSN programs. All work in this degree program is online and at a
distance. The WGU RN to BSN program is evidence-based and developed according to The Essentials of
Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice from the American Association of Colleges of Nursing
American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2008). In addition, it incorporates competencies and standards from
other specialty organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare 2 2
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 2
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others 3 3
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
HUMN 1 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 3
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach 4 4
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections 3 4
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 4
NURS 3600 D218 Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional Growth 3 5
NURS 3610 D219 Scholarship in Nursing Practice 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 5
NURS 3620 D220 Information Technology in Nursing Practice 3 5
NURS 3630 D221 Organizational Systems and Healthcare Transformation 3 6
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3660 D224 Global and Population Health 4 6
NURS 3670 D225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 7
NURS 3660 D226 BSNU Capstone 3 7
Total CUs: 120
BSNU 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 67
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management
The Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management provides a solid foundation in healthcare information
systems and data management technologies for healthcare organizations including healthcare regulation, project
management of health systems, databases, and security. In addition to the health information management content,
the degree program includes a broad collegiate education. The program is designed for those who have some
technical or clinical knowledge in a health care environment and are ready to move to increased levels of expertise
and knowledge in the health information management field. The health information management component of the
Bachelor of Science program consists of the following areas of study: Healthcare Data, Health Information
Technology, Medical Terminology, Pathophysiology and Pharmacology. There are several other areas of study that
students master including Fundamentals of IT in Healthcare, Legal and Ethical Considerations in Healthcare,
Leadership and Management, Anatomy and Physiology, Healthcare Compliance and Coding, Project Management,
Financial Resource Management, and Healthcare Statistics. There are two professional practice experiences required
for the program. At the end of the program, students complete a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 1
HLTH 3501 C802 Foundations in Healthcare Information Management 4 1
HIM 2011 C799 Healthcare Ecosystems 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others 3 2
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
HIM 2150 C804 Medical Terminology 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
HCM 2507 C805 Pathophysiology 3 4
HIM 2421 C806 Introduction to Pharmacology 3 4
HIM 2104 C810 Foundations in Healthcare Data Management 3 4
HLTH 2100 D033 Healthcare Information Systems Management 3 4
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 5
HLTH 2110 D254 Introduction to Medical Coding 3 5
HIM 2215 C801 Health Information Law and Regulations 4 5
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
HIM 4610 C812 Healthcare Reimbursement 4 6
HIM 4511 C815 Quality and Performance Management and Methods 4 6
HIM 2002 D190 Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems 4 6
HLTH 3315 C803 Data Analytics and Information Governance 4 7
HIM 3215 C807 Healthcare Compliance 3 7
HIM 2515 C808 Classification Systems 4 7
HIM 3701 C811 Healthcare Financial Resource Management 4 7
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 8
BSHIM 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 68
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HIM 4502 C813 Healthcare Statistics and Research 3 8
HLTH 4905 D255 Professional Practice Experience I: Technical 3 8
HLTH 2120 D256 Principles of Management in Health Information Management 3 8
HLTH 3 D257 Healthcare Project Management 4 9
HIM 3205 C816 Healthcare System Applications 4 9
HLTH 3100 D258 Organizational Leadership in Healthcare 3 9
HLTH 4906 D259 Professional Practice Experience II: Management 4 9
HIM 4507 D260 Health Information Management Capstone 4 10
Total CUs: 121
BSHIM 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 69
Bachelor of Science, Health Services Coordination
The Bachelor of Science in Health Services Coordination prepares graduates to coordinate within and between
healthcare providers, patients, care givers, and services to improve the effectiveness, safety, and efficiency of an
increasingly complex healthcare system. Graduates will be prepared to navigate emerging value-based care systems,
participate as a partner to plan interventions, promote patient-centered holistic care, and provide integrated care
management.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 1
HIM 2150 C804 Medical Terminology 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
HSC 2100 D046 Introduction to Care Coordination 3 1
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 1
HSC 2210 D065 Healthcare Ecosystems 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
HSC 2200 D047 Roles and Responsibilities in an Interdisciplinary Team 3 2
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 2
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
HSC 2310 D066 Health and Wellness through Nutritional Science 3 3
HSC 2300 D048 Communication and Organizational Awareness 3 3
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
HSC 2400 D049 Critical Thinking and Strategic Decision-Making 3 4
HSC 2410 D067 Care of the Older Adult 3 4
HSC 2420 D068 Introduction to Pharmacology 3 4
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 5
HSC 2500 D050 History of Healthcare in America 3 5
HSC 2800 D053 Contemporary Topics and the Influence on Healthcare Today 3 5
HSC 2510 D069 Pathophysiology 3 5
HSC 2700 D052 Navigating Care Across the Continuum 3 6
HSC 2600 D051 Care for Individuals and Families 3 6
HSC 3100 D054 Cultural Awareness for the Healthcare Professional 3 6
HSC 3200 D055 Evidenced-Based Practice for Care Coordination 3 6
HSC 2610 D070 Technology Applications in Healthcare 3 7
HSC 3620 D071 Financial Resource Management and Healthcare 4 7
Reimbursement
HSC 3300 D056 Care at the End of Life 3 7
HSC 3400 D057 Health Equity and Social Determinants of Health 3 7
HSC 3500 D058 Health Literacy for the Client and Family 3 8
HSC 3600 D059 Healthcare Values and Ethics 3 8
BSHSC 201907 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 70
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HSC 3700 D060 Community Relations and Leadership 3 8
HSC 3800 D061 Care Coordination for the Patient (Chronic, Palliative, 4 8
Behavioral, Population)
HSC 4100 D062 Health Services Coordination Field Experience 3 9
HSC 3900 D063 Models of Care and Healthcare Trends 3 9
HSC 4200 D064 Health Services Coordination Capstone 3 9
Total CUs: 112
BSHSC 201907 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 71
Master of Science, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner (MSNUFNP) program is a cutting-edge competency-based
graduate program for nurses wishing to become advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs) with the Family Nurse
Practitioner (FNP) population focus. FNPs deliver cost-effective, holistic, high-quality primary care to individuals,
families, and communities across the lifespan. The MSNUFNP program will prepare graduates to excel in the
assessment, diagnostic, prescriptive, and treatment processes of advanced practice, as well as in delivering disease
prevention and health promotion. In addition to the clinical skills graduates will develop in the MSNUFNP program,
graduates will be prepared to lead interprofessional healthcare teams, shape healthcare policy, and make business
decisions in order to more efficiently deliver high-quality, cost-effective care to individuals, families, and communities.
The MSNUFNP program is a blended program with the majority of the coursework delivered online, plus hands-on
clinical practice experiences occurring in the local community. Graduates of the MSNUFNP program are eligible to sit
for the FNP national certification examination of their choice. Additionally, the MSNUFNP program will prepare
graduates to successfully transition to clinical practice in delivering care to individuals, families, and communities.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional 2 1
Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care 2 1
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 1
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems 3 2
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice 3 2
NURS 5800 D115 Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse 4 2
NURS 6800 D116 Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse 4 3
NURS 6810 D117 Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse 4 3
NURS 6820 D118 Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse 3 4
NURS 6830 D119 Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse 3 4
NURS 6840 D120 Special Populations Primary Care for the Advanced Practice 3 4
Nurse
NURS 6820 D121 Health Promotion of Patients and Populations Across the 3 5
Lifespan
NURS 6830 D122 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I 3 5
NURS 6861 D123 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II 3 5
NURS 6850 D124 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III 3 6
Total CUs: 48
MSNUFNP 202003 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 72
Master of Science, Nursing - Education (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science in Nursing, Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares graduates to be
academic nurse educators in various educational and practice settings. Graduates are prepared to lead collaborative
academic-practice partnerships to strengthen nursing practice by developing nurses who will lead and advance health
in diverse populations. As academic nurse educators, graduates demonstrate a professional presence by helping
nursing students acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies to work effectively in inter-professional teams across
a variety of academic and healthcare settings. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing Education content is based on
national standards and evidence-based research related to effective teaching, learning, curriculum design and
development and nursing role development. It provides the knowledge and skills that enable educators to teach
effectively in clinical and lab, online, hybrid, virtual and classroom learning environments. The content, resources,
activities, and assessments in this program are consistent with recommendations from American Association of
Colleges of Nursing (AACN), The Essentials of Master's Education in Nursing (2011) and the National League for
Nursing (NLN), Scope of Practice for Academic Nurse Educators (2012). The hallmarks of our program include: (a)
authentic learning experiences, b) evidence-based course preparation, and c) self-paced learning in an asynchronous
online learning environment. Developing context-based curriculum, objectives, and learning materials are an essential
aspect of an academic educator role. MSN Education graduates will experience theoretical applications and practical
perspectives regarding learning styles, the development and socialization of learners, strategies to facilitate learning,
and contemporary design and development of high-quality courses and assessments.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional 2 1
Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care 2 1
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 1
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems 3 2
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice 3 2
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 2
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations 3 3
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments 2 3
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning 2 3
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing 2 3
Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student 3 4
Learning
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing 2 4
Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 4
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 4
Total CUs: 36
MSNUED 202003 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 73
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management is a competency-based program that prepares
graduates to be leaders and managers in diverse settings: hospitals, long term care facilities, community service
agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. Graduates use their organizational, analytic,
strategic planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills across healthcare organizations. The WGU
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management program content is evidence-based, drawing on national
standards and research related to creating work environments that are collaborative, interdisciplinary, and promote
effective functioning in complex nursing and healthcare environments. The Master of Science, Nursing -
Leadership/Management content and processes are consistent with the American Nurses Association (ANA)
Standards for Nurse Administrators and the American Organization for Nursing Leadership (AONL) competencies for
nursing managers and executives. The degree program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified nurse
administrators (nurse managers and nurse executives). This program consists of developing core knowledge related to
complexities of healthcare, access, quality, and costs for diverse populations. New nursing knowledge includes
research, theory, technology applied to nursing practice, evidence-based practice, ethics, and new roles for master's
prepared nurses. Areas of focus include organizational and leadership theories, strategic planning, regulatory
standards, risk management, principles of financial management, and concepts of human resource management. A
case study approach is used to examine organizational, financial, and personnel issues and their resolution. The
process for assessment, measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional 2 1
Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care 2 1
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 1
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems 3 2
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice 3 2
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 2
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations 3 3
NURS 6431 D155 Leading with Personal Mastery 2 3
NURS 6432 D156 Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement 2 3
NURS 6433 D157 Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption 2 3
NURS 6434 D158 Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare 2 4
Improvement Project
NURS 6435 D159 Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating Healthcare 2 4
Improvements
NURS 6503 D160 Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience 3 4
NURS 6603 D161 Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone 2 4
Total CUs: 36
MSNULM 202011 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 74
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a
rewarding career as a specialist in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge,
skills, and expertise to design, develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery
of safe, efficient and high-quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU Master of Science Nursing Informatics
program apply systems-thinking strategies to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and
distribution of healthcare needs in diverse populations. This program prepares students to select and use
contemporary technologies to collaborate with interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of
health education programs, evidence-based practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing
science, computer science and information science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced
informatics skills to improve health outcomes, such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters
degree program supports students in applying their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to
real-world situations where the use of information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and
coordinating care across multiple settings. Graduates of the WGU Master of Science Nursing Informatics program are
prepared to gather, document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a foundation for data-driven decisions that
inform practice processes and the implementation of interventions or strategies to improve healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional 2 1
Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care 2 1
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 1
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems 3 2
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice 3 2
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 2
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations 3 3
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 3
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 3
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management Systems 2 3
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 4
NURS 6020 C854 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 4
NURS 6030 C855 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 4
Total CUs: 36
MSNUNI 202003 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 75
Master of Science, Nursing - Education (RN to MSN)
The Master of Science in Nursing Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares graduates to be
academic nurse educators in various educational and practice settings. Graduates are prepared to lead collaborative
academic-practice partnerships to strengthen nursing practice by developing nurses who will lead and advance health
in diverse populations. As academic nurse educators, graduates demonstrate a professional presence by helping
nursing students acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies to work effectively in inter-professional teams across
a variety of academic and healthcare settings. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing Education content is based on
national standards and evidence-based research related to effective teaching, learning, curriculum design and
development and nursing role development. It provides the knowledge and skills that enable educators to teach
effectively in clinical and lab, online, hybrid, virtual and classroom learning environments. The content, resources,
activities, and assessments in this program are consistent with recommendations from American Association of
Colleges of Nursing (AACN), The Essentials of Master's Education in Nursing (2011) and the National League for
Nursing (NLN), Scope of Practice for Academic Nurse Educators (2012). The hallmarks of our program include: (a)
authentic learning experiences, b) evidence-based course preparation, and c) self-paced learning in an asynchronous
online learning environment. Developing context-based curriculum, objectives, and learning materials are an essential
aspect of an academic educator role. MSN Education graduates will experience theoretical applications and practical
perspectives regarding learning styles, the development and socialization of learners, strategies to facilitate learning,
and contemporary design and development of high-quality courses and assessments.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare 2 2
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 3
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others 3 3
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 4
HUMN 1 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach 4 5
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections 3 5
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 6
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3660 D224 Global and Population Health 4 7
NURS 3670 D225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 7
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 7
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional 2 8
Practice
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 8
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems 3 8
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice 3 9
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care 2 9
MSRNNUEDGR 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 76
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 9
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations 3 10
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments 2 10
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning 2 10
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing 2 10
Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student 3 11
Learning
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing 2 11
Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 11
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 11
Total CUs: 141
MSRNNUEDGR 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 77
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN)
The Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN) is a competency-based program that
builds on the foundation of students' previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma levels. The BSN
portion of the program focuses on contemporary nursing practice, developing students' skills and competencies using
technology-based learning. It is structured to develop high quality, highly educated BSN nurses. Graduates are
equipped to function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings by expanding their knowledge in
areas of research, theory, community concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in
health care. Graduates will be eligible for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA appointments, as well as roles in school
health, community, occupational, and other care settings. The MSN portion of the program further prepares graduates
to be leaders and managers in diverse settings; hospitals, long-term care facilities, community service agencies,
governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. Graduates use their organizational, analytic, strategic
planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills across diverse nursing and healthcare settings.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare 2 2
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 3
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others 3 3
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 4
HUMN 1 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach 4 5
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections 3 5
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 6
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3660 D224 Global and Population Health 4 7
NURS 3670 D225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 7
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 7
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional 2 8
Practice
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 8
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems 3 8
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice 3 9
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care 2 9
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 9
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations 3 10
NURS 6431 D155 Leading with Personal Mastery 2 10
NURS 6432 D156 Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement 2 10
MSRNNULMGR 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 78
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 6433 D157 Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption 2 10
NURS 6434 D158 Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare 2 11
Improvement Project
NURS 6435 D159 Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating Healthcare 2 11
Improvements
NURS 6503 D160 Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience 3 11
NURS 6603 D161 Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone 2 11
Total CUs: 141
MSRNNULMGR 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 79
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN)
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program that
builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the
degree focuses on contemporary nursing practice in the developing of skills and competencies using technology-
based learning. The master of science portion of the degree prepares graduates for a rewarding career as a specialist
in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge, skills, and expertise to design,
develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery of safe, efficient and high-
quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU Master of Science Nursing Informatics program apply systems-
thinking strategies to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and distribution of healthcare
needs in diverse populations. This program prepares students to select and use contemporary technologies to
collaborate with interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of health education programs,
evidence-based practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing science, computer science
and information science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced informatics skills to improve
health outcomes, such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters degree program supports
students in applying their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to real-world situations
where the use of information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and coordinating care
across multiple settings. Graduates are prepared to gather, document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a
foundation for data-driven decisions that inform practice processes and the implementation of interventions or
strategies to improve healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare 2 2
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 3
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others 3 3
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 4
HUMN 1 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach 4 5
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections 3 5
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 6
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3660 D224 Global and Population Health 4 7
NURS 3670 D225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 7
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 7
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional 2 8
Practice
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 8
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems 3 8
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice 3 9
MSRNNUNIFGR 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 80
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care 2 9
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 9
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations 3 10
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 10
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 10
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management Systems 2 10
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 11
NURS 6020 C854 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 11
NURS 6030 C855 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 11
Total CUs: 141
MSRNNUNIFGR 202202 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 81
Master of Health Leadership
The Master of Health Leadership degree requires completion of project-based courses and a capstone culminating in
five program outcomes: transformational leader, value innovator, tactical manager, analyst, and integrated systems
expert. The program also embeds themes of person-focused care, professionalism, technology, and ethics, and
fosters innovation and sustainability in health systems. Courses become progressively complex as the curriculum
advances, integrating key skill sets and a knowledge base that will foster career development in health leadership.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MHL 5110 C980 Innovative Solutions in Health Leadership 3 1
MHL 5210 C981 Collaborative Leadership 3 1
MHL 5310 C982 Healthcare Models and Systems 2 1
MHL 5410 C983 Quality Improvement in Healthcare 3 2
MHL 5510 C984 Healthcare Financial Management 3 2
MHL 5600 C985 Analytical Methods of Health Leaders 2 2
MHL 6210 C986 Enterprise Risk Management 3 3
MHL 6310 C987 Healthcare Information Technology 2 3
MHL 6410 C988 Population Healthcare Coordination 3 3
MHL 6510 C989 Challenges in Community Healthcare 3 4
MHL 6610 C990 Integrated Health Leadership 3 4
MHL 6910 C991 Health Leadership Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 34
MHL 201806 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 82
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Nursing Education (Post-MSN)
The Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Nursing Education (Post-MSN) program is a competency-based program that
prepares students to be academic nurse educators in various educational and practice settings. Students are prepared
to lead collaborative academic-practice partnerships to strengthen nursing practice by developing nurses who will lead
and advance health in diverse populations. As academic nurse educators, graduates demonstrate a professional
presence by helping nursing students acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies to work effectively in inter-
professional teams across a variety of academic and healthcare settings. The WGU Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing -
Nursing Education (Post-MSN) content is based on national standards and evidence-based research related to
effective teaching, learning, curriculum design and development and nursing role development. It provides the
knowledge and skills that enable educators to teach effectively in clinical and lab, online, hybrid, virtual and classroom
learning environments. The content, resources, activities, and assessments in this program are consistent with
recommendations from American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN), The Essentials of Master's Education in
Nursing, and the National League for Nursing (NLN), Scope of Practice for Academic Nurse Educators. This program
builds on the core knowledge developed during the student's prior MSN degree. Areas of focus for this certificate
program include: development of the context-based curriculum, learning objectives and outcomes, and learning
materials that are an essential aspect of an academic educator role. This program will provide student opportunities to
experience the application of nursing and educational theory, practical perspectives regarding learning,
the development and socialization of learners, strategies to facilitate learning, and contemporary design and
development of high-quality learning modules and assessments.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5000 D314 Essentials of Academic Writing 1 1
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments 2 1
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning 2 1
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing 2 1
Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student 3 1
Learning
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing 2 2
Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 2
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 2
Total CUs: 16
PMCNUED 202110 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 83
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management (Post-MSN)
The Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management (Post-MSN) program is a competency-based
program that prepares students to be leaders and managers in diverse settings: hospitals, long term care facilities,
community service agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. Students use their
organizational, analytic, strategic planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills across healthcare
organizations. The WGU Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management (Post-MSN) program
content is evidence-based, drawing on national standards and research related to creating work environments that are
collaborative, interdisciplinary, and promote effective functioning in complex nursing and healthcare environments. The
certificate program content and processes are consistent with the American Nurses Association (ANA) Standards for
Nurse Administrators and the American Organization for Nursing Leadership (AONL) competencies for nursing
managers and executives, and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) Clinical Nurse Leader (CNL).
The Post-Master's Certificate program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified nurse administrators (nurse
managers and nurse executives). This program builds on the core knowledge developed during the student's prior
MSN degree. Areas of focus for this certificate program include organizational and leadership theories, strategic
planning, regulatory standards, risk management, principles of financial management, and concepts of human
resource management. Graduates examine organizational, financial, and personnel issues and their resolution. The
process for assessment, measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5000 D314 Essentials of Academic Writing 1 1
NURS 6431 D155 Leading with Personal Mastery 2 1
NURS 6432 D156 Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement 2 1
NURS 6433 D157 Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption 2 1
NURS 6434 D158 Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare 2 1
Improvement Project
NURS 6435 D159 Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating Healthcare 2 2
Improvements
NURS 6503 D160 Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience 3 2
NURS 6603 D161 Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone 2 2
Total CUs: 16
PMCNULM 202110 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 84
College of Information Technology
College of Information Technology Tenets:
● We believe education is the single greatest catalyst to change lives permanently. By providing affordable, high-
value competency-based education in IT at scale, we provide opportunities to maximize professional and personal
outcomes for as many learners as possible.
● Information Technology opportunities are ubiquitous across industries and are critical to solving global challenges,
both current and future. We leverage strategic partnerships, portfolio research, and skills mapping to identify,
develop, and deliver innovative learning approaches and access pathways that enable students to succeed in
current as well as future technical and career environments.
● Those with the least access to education have the most to gain for themselves, their families, and the world:
equitable attainment for the underserved and underrepresented is a force multiplier in our impact. Through
ongoing innovation in learning analytics, personalized support, focused efforts around diversity, and differentiated
unbiased curriculum, we meet learners where they are and scaffold them to success no matter their background.
● Our learners flourish when they are skilled in not only technological systems but also innovation, integration,
critical thinking, and problem solving. Our curriculum choices ensure that industry-relevant skills are integrated
with complementary skill sets that scaffold students’ ability to make informed choices in business and across
society.
● We are part of a lifelong learning journey for our students and offer flexible learning at multiple points along that
timeline. While certifications help our students get the next job, our degrees grow their careers and change their
lives. We maintain the relevancy of both to ensure student short-term and long-term success.
● Our people are our college, and our collective success enables student success. By focusing on the wellbeing and
growth of each contributor, we maximize our potential and therefore that of our students by achieving together.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 85
Bachelor of Science, Cloud Computing
The Bachelor of Science Cloud Computing (BSCC) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and
experience in the delivery of cloud computing solutions with operating systems, systems security, and cloud
technologies. These are used to manage system infrastructure and secure data through effective IT policies and
procedures (DevOps). The BSCC curriculum includes industry standard methods to ensure uptime, performance,
resource availability, and the security of computing resources to meet the needs of the organization. The program
builds upon a core IT curriculum that includes systems and services, networking and security, scripting and
programming, data management, business of IT, and web development. Students seeking the BS Cloud Computing
degree demonstrate additional competencies in software, engineering and architecture development for cloud-based
computing solutions across multiple industries.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 1
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 3
ITAS 2040 C839 Introduction to Cryptography 4 3
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 3
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 4
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 4
ITSW 3121 C859 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 4
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 4
ITEC 3655 C851 Linux Foundations 3 5
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 5
ITEC 2901 C849 Cloud Foundations 3 5
ITEC 3901 C923 Cloud Applications 3 5
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 6
ITEC 2213 C188 Software Engineering 4 6
ITCL 3905 D086 Desktop Virtualization 4 6
ITCL 3906 D087 Data Center Virtualization 4 7
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 7
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 7
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 7
ITCL 3903 D084 Cloud Platform Solutions 3 8
ITCL 3907 D088 Cloud Architecture 3 8
ITSW 3160 C916 Scripting and Automation 2 8
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 8
BSCC 202005 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 86
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 9
ITCL 3904 D085 Automation and Scaling Tools 3 9
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 9
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 9
ITEC 2950 C850 Emerging Technologies 2 10
ITEC 3902 C924 Cloud Deployment and Operations 3 10
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 10
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 123
BSCC 202005 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 87
Bachelor of Science, Computer Science
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science prepares students for a career in the high demand field of Computer
Science. Upon program completion, students will apply their learned knowledge and skills in the designing, developing
and optimizing of systems to meet current and future industry needs. The curriculum includes innovative courses in
programming and logic, architecture and systems, data structures, project management, artificial intelligence, along
with the theory and science of computing.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
MATH 2100 C958 Calculus I 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
MATH 2800 C959 Discrete Mathematics I 4 3
MATH 2810 C960 Discrete Mathematics II 4 3
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 4
ICSC 3120 C952 Computer Architecture 3 4
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 4
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
ITEC 3014 C482 Software I 6 5
ITEC 3023 C195 Software II - Advanced Java Concepts 6 6
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 6
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 6
ICSC 3100 C950 Data Structures and Algorithms II 4 7
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ITAS 2010 C836 Fundamentals of Information Security 3 7
ITEC 2211 C191 Operating Systems for Programmers 3 7
ITEC 2213 C188 Software Engineering 4 8
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 8
DTMG 3330 D191 Advanced Data Management 3 8
ITBU 2200 D194 IT Leadership Foundations 3 8
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 9
BSCS 202011 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 88
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ICSC 3110 C951 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence 3 9
ITSW 3150 C857 Software Quality Assurance 3 9
ICSC 3130 C964 Computer Science Capstone 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSCS 202011 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 89
Bachelor of Science, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
To meet an increasing demand for cybersecurity professionals, the Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity and
Information Assurance (BSCSIA) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and experience in risk
management and digital forensics to safeguard infrastructure and secure data through continuity planning and disaster
recovery operations. Courses deliver proven methods for information security using software analysis techniques, web
engineering, cloud management, and networking strategies to prevent, detect, and mitigate cyberattacks. This
program features nationally recognized, high demand certifications in the field of cybersecurity.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
ITAS 2010 C836 Fundamentals of Information Security 3 1
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
ITAS 3010 C841 Legal Issues in Information Security 4 2
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 3
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 3
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 4
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 4
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 4
ITAS 2040 C839 Introduction to Cryptography 4 4
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 5
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 5
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 5
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
ITAS 3040 C844 Emerging Technologies in Cybersecurity 4 6
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
ITAS 2050 C840 Digital Forensics in Cybersecurity 4 6
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 6
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 7
ITAS 3050 C845 Information Systems Security 4 7
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 7
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ITAS 3031 C838 Managing Cloud Security 4 8
ITAS 3030 C843 Managing Information Security 6 8
ITAS 3020 C842 Cyber Defense and Countermeasures 4 8
BSCSIA 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 90
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 9
ITAS 3060 D153 Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSCSIA 202010 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 91
Bachelor of Science, Data Management/Data Analytics
The B.S. in Data Management/Data Analytics is designed to prepare science professionals who can set up a database
environment, design databases, acqiure data, wrangle it, analyze it, and visualize it to different audiences as part of
the decision-making process
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others 3 1
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 1
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 2
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 3
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 3
ITSW 3121 C859 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 4
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 4
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 4
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
ITBU 2200 D194 IT Leadership Foundations 3 4
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 5
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 5
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 6
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 6
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 6
DTMG 3330 D191 Advanced Data Management 3 7
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
DTAN 4020 C756 Data Analytics 4 7
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 7
DTSC 3210 C749 Introduction to Data Science 4 8
DTMG 3220 D309 Data Wrangling 3 8
DTAN 3210 C751 Data Analysis with R 2 8
BSDMDA 202111 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 92
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTSC 3220 C753 Machine Learning 3 8
DTAN 3220 C939 Data Visualization 2 9
DBMG 3320 D192 Data Systems Administration 3 9
DTMG 3350 D193 Data and Information Governance 2 9
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 9
DTMG 3900 D195 Data Management/Analytics Undergraduate Capstone 4 9
Total CUs: 121
BSDMDA 202111 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 93
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology
The WGU Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (IT) program provides a solid foundation in computer
information systems and technologies. In addition to the IT content, the degree program includes a broad collegiate-
level education. The program is primarily designed for those seeking a career or to advance their current career as
information technology professionals by developing levels of expertise required for increased responsibility in the
information technology field. The foundation of the Bachelor of Science program consists of six domains of study:
systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, and
web development. At the end of the program, students develop a comprehensive portfolio and complete a capstone
project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 3
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 4
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 4
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 4
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 5
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 5
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 5
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 6
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
MATH 1709 C277 Finite Mathematics 4 6
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 7
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 7
ITEC 2950 C850 Emerging Technologies 2 7
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 8
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 8
BSIT 201901 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 94
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 8
ITEC 3655 C851 Linux Foundations 3 9
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 9
ITEC 2901 C849 Cloud Foundations 3 9
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 121
BSIT 201901 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 95
Bachelor of Science, Network Operations and Security
In response to an increasing demand for network operations and security professionals, the Bachelor of Science,
Network Operations and Security (BSNOS) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and
experience in network design, network operations, network security, and cloud security to manage network
infrastructure and secure data through effective IT policies and procedures. Courses deliver proven methods for
network administration to ensure uptime, performance, resources, and security of networks to meet the needs of the
organization. The program builds upon a core IT curriculum: systems and services, networking and security, scripting
and programming, data management, business of IT, and web development. Students seeking the BS, Network
Operations and Security degree demonstrate additional competencies in this area by taking and passing specific
industry certification exams in major network systems.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ITEC 2950 C850 Emerging Technologies 2 1
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 2
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 3
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 3
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 3
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 4
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 4
ITSW 3121 C859 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 4
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 5
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 5
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 5
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 5
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 6
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 6
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2901 C849 Cloud Foundations 3 7
ITEC 3655 C851 Linux Foundations 3 7
ITAS 2040 C839 Introduction to Cryptography 4 7
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 8
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 8
BSNOS 202002 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 96
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 8
ITEC 3754 D114 Implementing and Administering Networking Solutions 6 8
ITAS 3031 C838 Managing Cloud Security 4 9
ITEC 3902 C924 Cloud Deployment and Operations 3 9
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 120
BSNOS 202002 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 97
Bachelor of Science, Software Development
The B.S. in Software Development program is designed to meet this growing need while preparing experienced
information technology professionals for successful careers as software designers and developers.
The program focuses on software application development and it is offered in two tracks that utilize either Java or C#
to achieve similar objectives.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 2
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 3
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 4
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 4
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 5
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
ITEC 2205 C846 Business of IT - Applications 4 5
HUMN 3100 C961 Ethics in Technology 3 6
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 6
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 6
ITEC 2213 C188 Software Engineering 4 6
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 7
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 7
ITSW 3215 C968 Software I – C# 6 7
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 8
ITSW 3110 C856 User Experience Design 3 8
ITSW 3225 C969 Software II – Advanced C# 6 8
ITSW 3150 C857 Software Quality Assurance 3 9
ITSW 3315 C971 Mobile Application Development Using C# 3 9
DTMG 3330 D191 Advanced Data Management 3 9
BSITSWC 202011 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 98
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 4904 C868 Software Development Capstone 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSITSWC 202011 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 99
Master of Science, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance prepares security professionals to protect an
organization's operations in the cyberspace by providing them with the tools, techniques, and standards required to
prevent, detect, and counteract cyberattacks. The program not only focuses on keeping infrastructure safe but also the
assurance of information covering subjects ranging from cryptography to business continuity planning and disaster
recovery
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSA 5220 C700 Secure Network Design 3 1
ITAS 5010 C725 Information Security and Assurance 2 1
ITAS 6310 C727 Cybersecurity Management I - Strategic 4 1
ITAS 6330 C795 Cybersecurity Management II - Tactical 4 2
ITAS 5300 C701 Ethical Hacking 4 2
ITAS 5290 C726 Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering 4 3
ITAS 6300 C702 Forensics and Network Intrusion 4 3
ITAS 5230 C706 Secure Software Design 2 4
ITAS 6450 C796 Cybersecurity Graduate Capstone 3 4
Total CUs: 30
MSCSIA 201902 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 100
Master of Science, Data Analytics
The MS Data Analytics degree prepares statisticians, analysts, data managers, programmers, and other business and
IT professionals for successful and rewarding careers in the high-demand field of data analytics through cutting-edge
courses in data mining, manipulation, analysis, and visualization. The program empowers graduates to use powerful
tools to implement industry-standard techniques in order to solve problems, identify trends, and make predictions.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 5101 D204 The Data Analytics Journey 2 1
DTMG 5240 D205 Data Acquisition 3 1
DTAN 5201 D206 Data Cleaning 3 1
DTAN 5202 D207 Exploratory Data Analysis 3 2
DTAN 5203 D208 Predictive Modeling 3 2
DTAN 6250 D209 Data Mining I 3 2
DTAN 6204 D210 Representation and Reporting 3 3
DTMG 6240 D211 Advanced Data Acquisition 2 3
DTAN 6250 D212 Data Mining II 3 3
DTAN 6205 D213 Advanced Data Analytics 3 4
DTAN 6520 D214 Data Analytics Graduate Capstone 3 4
Total CUs: 31
MSDA 202011 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 101
Master of Science, Information Technology Management
The Master of Science in Information Technology Management is a competency-based degree program that
represents a path for successful IT professionals to launch their careers and build them to an executive level. The
graduate will advance his or her knowledge and skills through a practical, real-world program based on sound
principles of Information Technology revolving around three primary themes: communication, technical competence
and strategic vision: effective communication as essential to management at all levels, in all areas of human endeavor;
and strategic vision that takes individuals and organizations beyond immediate difficulties and successes to a
perception of future challenges and preparations to meet those challenges.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 6500 C948 Technical Communication 3 1
ITIM 5530 C954 Information Technology Management 3 1
INTE 5300 LZT2 Power, Influence and Leadership 3 1
ITIM 6510 C928 Financial Management for IT Professionals 2 2
ITIM 6520 C929 IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy 2 2
ITIM 6500 C927 Managing Technology Operations and Innovation 3 2
ITEC 6400 MBT2 Technological Globalization 3 2
ITEC 5320 C783 Project Management 4 3
INTE 5200 C962 Current and Emerging Technology 3 3
ITEC 6901 C498 MS, Information Technology Management Capstone 4 3
Total CUs: 30
MSITM 201808 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 102
Teachers College
Teachers College Tenets:
● WGU’s Teachers College radically improves the way people learn and lead across the K-20+ spectrum—i.e., the
K- 12, higher-education, and workforce-education sectors.
● The surest path toward helping our students become next-generation educators is to ensure they experience high-
quality, next-generation education.
● We know our students and are committed to supporting each one as they work to learn well, finish strong, and
launch effectively into the next phase of their learning or working journey.
● School districts, colleges, universities, and industry employers are our customers too. Developing programming
and services that meet their strategic needs matters.
● We are a beacon of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) impact in both expanding access and improving
attainment.
● We own and champion larger-WGU strategic goals around student outcomes and financial sustainability.
● Our people are our college. How we recruit, hire, develop, evaluate, and culturally integrate our team is the most
tangible evidence of our values and expectations around DEI, learning quality, and student care.
Steps to Become a Licensed Teacher
https://www.wgu.edu/online-teaching-degrees/becoming-licensed-teacher-accredited.html
WGU offers teacher certification programs including bachelor’s and master’s degree programs. Below is the standard
process for earning an initial teaching license through the WGU Teachers College.
1a. Earn a bachelor's degree
The online bachelor's teaching degree programs in the Teachers College at WGU include coursework and
assessments, a preclinical experience that includes observation hours and teaching lessons, and Demonstration
Teaching (student teaching, explained in step 5).
1b. Complete a master’s degree (if you already have a bachelor’s degree)
If you already possess a bachelor’s degree in a non-teaching field, WGU’s Master of Arts in Teaching programs are the
choice for you. These teacher-prep programs qualify you to become licensed in the field of your choice (such as
elementary education, secondary mathematics, science, etc.), training you to become a highly qualified teacher. These
programs include supervised practice teaching (see step 5: Demonstration Teaching) in an actual classroom setting.
2. Pass a background check
WGU requires all candidates for a teacher-certification program to provide the university with verification of a cleared
background check prior to entering the classroom for preclinical experiences and Demonstration Teaching. Previously
completed background checks may not satisfy WGU background check requirements. In some states, more than one
background check may be required. In addition, most states require that applicants for teacher certification complete a
background check for the Department of Education prior to submitting all application paperwork. This is a necessary
precaution designed to prevent those who may pose a danger to the students in the classroom. You must be at least 18
years of age before you may begin the application process or participate in preclinical experiences and Demonstration
Teaching.
3. Pass basic skills, content, and pedagogy exams
Each state has specific testing requirements that must be met or completed in addition to completing a teaching degree
program at WGU. WGU requires students to complete and pass:
● Basic Skills Exam: Pass the Basic Skills Exam required by your state for certification, or a designated Basic Skills
Exam if your state does not require one.
● Content Exam: You must pass the designated Content Exam(s) required by your state in order to graduate from
your program.
● WGU Program Exam: WGU also requires you to pass a specific Praxis exam to graduate from your program (with
the exception of Elementary programs), often in addition to any certification exam required by your state.
● Pedagogy Exam: Finally, some states require the completion of a Pedagogy Exam, which assesses your
knowledge of teaching methods.
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 103
4. Complete preclinical experiences
In preparation for your formal Demonstration Teaching (described in step 5 below), you will complete preclinical
experiences designed to introduce you to the classroom through a series of activities, including observations and lesson
planning. Working under the guidance of a WGU Placement Specialist, you will be asked to make arrangements with a
local school to complete these activities.
5. Complete a term of in-classroom student teaching (Demonstration Teaching)
Demonstration Teaching (or student teaching) is a critical component of any teaching degree program. This in-
classroom experience is invaluable in helping to integrate the academic knowledge and teaching skills you’ve developed
to this point into a practical application that will prepare you to tackle the challenges of your own classroom effectively
and with confidence.
Demonstration Teaching (DT) at WGU covers the competencies required for in-classroom proficiency. DT is a full-time,
supervised, in-classroom experience of a minimum of 12–20 weeks. During Demonstration Teaching, you will be hosted
by an experienced teacher. You will undergo a series of at least six observations by a Clinical Supervisor and also
receive evaluations from your Host Teacher to evaluate your performance based on accepted professional standards.
As you approach your Demonstration Teaching, a WGU Placement Specialist will work with you to set up your
placement. The process of scheduling your DT placement may take up to six months. You may be required to assist in
the process of setting up your placement. In some cases, you may be required to commute up to two hours (or in rare
cases longer than this). Note that students are not permitted to work during their Demonstration Teaching experience.
You must be at least 18 years of age before you may begin the application process or participate in preclinical
experiences or Demonstration Teaching.
Demonstration Teaching may not be waived and prior experience may not be used to satisfy this requirement as you
must demonstrate competency in the classroom in order to complete your WGU degree program.
More information on field experiences can be found in the student handbook:
Initial Licensure Programs - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Field-Experiences-Handbook/tkb-p/fieldplacement
Advanced Programs - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Field-Experiences-Handbook/tkb-p/advancedprograms
6. Meet any additional state certification requirements
Some states have additional requirements for certification, such as coursework not included in your WGU program, CPR
certification, or workshops.
More information on your state's requirements - https://www.wgu.edu/online-teaching-degrees/state-licensure.html
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 104
Bachelor of Arts, Elementary Education
The Bachelor of Arts in Elementary Education (BAELED), is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students to be licensed as K-8 elementary teachers. This program consists of online courses which take the learner
from general education through educational professional core coursework, continuing through methods of elementary
instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for students with mild to moderate exceptionalities.
Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-
based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, pre-clinical teaching
experiences in K-8 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real
classroom. With the successful completion of required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can
receive institutional recommendation for certification in elementary education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
MATH 1111 D125 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 2
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 3
MATH 1112 D126 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 3
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 3
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 4
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
MATH 1113 D127 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 5
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 5
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
EDUC 4211 C909 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 6
EDUC 3167 D152 Inclusive Classroom 3 7
EDUC 4240 C108 Elementary Science Methods 3 7
EDUC 4250 C104 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 7
EDUC 4270 C367 Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods 3 7
BAELED 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 105
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4260 C105 Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 3 8
EDUC 3277 C732 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 3211 C970 Children’s Literature 3 8
EDUC 3410 C935 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 3 8
EDUC 4921 C307 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 9
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4922 C308 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 9
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4923 C309 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 9
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4924 C310 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 9
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4760 D146 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education 3 9
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 120
BAELED 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 106
Bachelor of Arts, Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure)
The Bachelor of Arts, Special Education and Elementary Education Dual Licensure (BASPEE), is a competency-based
degree program that prepares teacher candidates to teach both Special Education (K-12) and Elementary Education
(K-8). The Special Education and Elementary Education Dual Licensure program is specifically designed for the
education and training of prospective teachers to work with both elementary students and students with mild/moderate
disabilities in a variety of school settings, including inclusionary K-12 classrooms, resource rooms or self-contained
classrooms; serve as an elementary teacher of record K-8, as well as teach all basic school subjects in the elementary
education classroom. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general education, through
methods of instruction, assessment, and classroom management to special education courses for teaching students
with exceptionalities. Candidates develop and refine their skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning
with video-based observations of classroom instruction, to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, pre-clinical
teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching
experience that consists of two placements, one in an elementary classroom and one in a middle or secondary level
classroom. Both placements should support the academic needs of students with mild-to-moderate disabilities. With
the successful completion of required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional
recommendation for certification in special education and in elementary education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
MATH 1111 D125 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 2
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 3
MATH 1112 D126 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 3
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 3
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 4
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
MATH 1113 D127 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
SPED 4513 D002 Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education 3 5
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 5
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 5
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 6
SPED 4512 D001 Behavioral Support Strategies for K-12 Learners with Mild to 4 6
Moderate Exceptionalities
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 6
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 6
BASPEE 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 107
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4211 C909 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 3 7
SPED 4514 D003 Assessment in Special Education 3 7
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 7
SPED 4515 D004 Collaborating with Partners for Student Success 3 7
EDUC 4240 C108 Elementary Science Methods 3 8
EDUC 4250 C104 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 8
EDUC 4270 C367 Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods 3 8
EDUC 4260 C105 Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 3 8
EDUC 3277 C732 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 9
EDUC 3211 C970 Children’s Literature 3 9
SPED 4516 D005 Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild 3 9
to Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 4517 D006 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Elementary 2 9
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionali
SPED 4518 D007 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Secondary 2 9
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalit
EDUC 3413 C934 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education 3 10
EDUC 4951 C311 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 1 and 2
EDUC 4952 C312 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4953 C313 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 4 and 5
EDUC 4954 C314 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 6 and Final
EDUC 4761 D147 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 11
EDUC 4989 C340 Cohort Seminar in Special Education 3 11
Total CUs: 137
BASPEE 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 108
Bachelor of Arts, Special Education, Mild to Moderate
The Bachelor of Arts, Special Education, Mild-to-Moderate (BASPMM), is a competency-based degree program that
prepares teacher candidates to teach Special Education (K-12). The Special Education, Mild to Moderate
Exceptionalities program is specifically designed for the preparation of prospective teachers to work with students with
mild to moderate disabilities in a variety of educational settings, including inclusionary K-12 classrooms and resource
classrooms. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general education, through methods
of instruction, assessment, and classroom management to special education courses for teaching students with
exceptionalities. Candidates develop and refine their skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with
video-based observations of classroom instruction, to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, pre-clinical
teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching
experience that consists of two placements, one in an elementary special education setting and another in a
secondary special education setting. Both placements support the academic needs of students with mild-to-moderate
disabilities. With the successful completion of program expectations and required assessments in the major area of
teaching, the candidate can receive institutional recommendation for certification in special education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
MATH 1111 D125 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 1
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
MATH 1112 D126 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 3
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 3
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
MATH 1113 D127 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
SPED 4513 D002 Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 5
SPED 4512 D001 Behavioral Support Strategies for K-12 Learners with Mild to 4 5
Moderate Exceptionalities
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 6
EDUC 4211 C909 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 3 6
SPED 4514 D003 Assessment in Special Education 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
BASPMM 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 109
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SPED 4515 D004 Collaborating with Partners for Student Success 3 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3279 D010 Disciplinary Literacy 3 7
EDUC 3211 C970 Children’s Literature 3 7
SPED 4516 D005 Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild 3 8
to Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 4517 D006 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Elementary 2 8
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionali
SPED 4518 D007 Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Secondary 2 8
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalit
EDUC 3420 D009 Preclinical Experiences in Special Education 3 8
EDUC 4047 D012 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 8
1 and 2
EDUC 4049 D013 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 9
3 and Midterm
EDUC 4050 D014 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4051 D015 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 9
6 and Final
EDUC 4763 D149 Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education 3 10
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 10
EDUC 4989 C340 Cohort Seminar in Special Education 3 10
Total CUs: 121
BASPMM 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 110
Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
The Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based program that prepares
students to be licensed as mathematics teachers in middle grades. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. This program consists of
work in General Education, Teacher Education Foundations, Mathematics Content, and Mathematics Education. This
program includes clinical experiences that prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and
refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with; video-based observations of
classroom instruction. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching
experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real
classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
MATH 2708 C306 Finite Mathematics 4 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 3
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 3
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
MATH 2505 C280 Probability and Statistics I 4 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
MATH 3610 C972 College Geometry 4 5
MATH 4305 C903 Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge 2 5
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 6
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 7
EDUC 4305 C285 Mathematics History and Technology 4 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 7
EDUC 4315 C284 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 4 8
BSMEMG 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 111
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4112 C965 Teaching in the Middle School 2 8
EDUC 3101 C879 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 8
EDUC 3411 C930 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 3 8
EDUC 4932 C315 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4933 C316 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4934 C317 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4935 C318 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4762 D148 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 3 9
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BSMEMG 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 112
Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students to be licensed as mathematics teachers in middle grades. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of
work in Mathematics Content, Teacher Education Foundations, and Mathematics Education. This program includes
clinical experiences that prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching
skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction.
Observations prepare candidates for authentic collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical
experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
MATH 2505 C280 Probability and Statistics I 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 3
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
MATH 3610 C972 College Geometry 4 4
MATH 2000 C362 Calculus I 4 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
MATH 2415 C283 Calculus II 4 5
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
MATH 2520 TQC1 Probability and Statistics II 3 6
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 6
MATH 3311 C656 Calculus III 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
MATH 3100 C877 Mathematical Modeling and Applications 3 7
MATH 3310 RKT1 Linear Algebra 3 7
MATH 4315 C897 Mathematics: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 7
MATH 3320 QDT1 Abstract Algebra 3 8
BSMES 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 113
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 3104 C885 Advanced Calculus 3 8
EDUC 4315 C284 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 4 8
EDUC 3101 C879 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 8
EDUC 3102 C881 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 9
EDUC 3103 C883 Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 9
EDUC 3414 C932 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 3 9
EDUC 4305 C285 Mathematics History and Technology 4 9
EDUC 4932 C315 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4933 C316 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4934 C317 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4935 C318 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 10
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4762 D148 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 3 10
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 138
BSMES 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 114
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Middle Grades)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students to be licensed as science teachers in the middle grades. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepares teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom.The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, Science Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 3
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
GEOS 2102 C890 Ecology and Environmental Science 3 5
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
BIO 3105 C652 Heredity and Genetics 3 5
PHYS 2100 RNT1 General Physics 5 6
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
GEOS 2104 C894 Astronomy 3 6
GEOS 3513 C925 Earth: Inside and Out 4 7
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 7
SCIE 4405 C902 Middle School Science: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BSSEMG 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 115
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4112 C965 Teaching in the Middle School 2 8
EDUC 4117 C974 Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science 4 8
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4764 D150 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 3 9
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 124
BSSEMG 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 116
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) is a competency based degree program
that prepares students to be licensed as secondary biology teachers. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom. The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Biology Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field
Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 1
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 3
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 4
BIO 2102 C888 Molecular and Cellular Biology 4 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
BIO 2012 C875 Human Anatomy and Physiology 4 5
BIO 3105 C652 Heredity and Genetics 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
BIO 2101 C654 Zoology 3 6
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
GEOS 2102 C890 Ecology and Environmental Science 3 7
BIO 3261 C736 Evolution 4 7
BIO 4405 C900 Biology: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
BSSESB 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 117
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4113 C940 Science Methods—Secondary Biology 4 8
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4764 D150 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 3 9
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BSSESB 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 118
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) is a competency based degree program that
prepares students to be licensed as secondary chemistry teachers. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom. The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Chemistry Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field
Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
CHEM 2110 C373 General Chemistry I with Lab 4 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
CHEM 2210 C374 General Chemistry II with Lab 4 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 4
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
CHEM 3310 BVT1 Physical Chemistry 3 4
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 4
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 5
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 5
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 6
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
CHEM 3300 BWT1 Inorganic Chemistry 3 6
CHEM 2300 UQT1 Organic Chemistry 3 7
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 7
CHEM 3501 C624 Biochemistry 3 7
EDUC 3512 C264 Climate Change 4 7
BSSESC 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 119
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
CHEM 4405 C915 Chemistry: Content Knowledge 2 8
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 8
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4114 C941 Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry 4 8
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 9
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 10
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 10
and Final
EDUC 4764 D150 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 3 10
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 129
BSSESC 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 120
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) is a competency based degree program that
prepares students to be licensed as secondary earth and space science teachers. All work in this degree program is
online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which
prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an
authentic, collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with
supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom. The program consists of work in General Education,
Foundations of Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Geosciences Content, Pedagogy, Science
Education, Field Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 3
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
GEOS 2102 C890 Ecology and Environmental Science 3 4
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 5
PHYS 2100 RNT1 General Physics 5 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
GEOS 2101 C649 Geology I: Physical 4 6
GEOS 2103 C892 Geology II: Earth Systems 4 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 6
GEOS 2104 C894 Astronomy 3 6
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 7
EDUC 3511 C263 The Ocean Systems 4 7
GEOS 4405 C898 Earth Science: Content Knowledge 2 7
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 7
BSSESE 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 121
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4115 C942 Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science 4 8
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4764 D150 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 3 9
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 124
BSSESE 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 122
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Physics)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Physics) is a competency based degree program that
prepares students to be licensed as secondary physics teachers. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher
candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for an authentic,
collaborative, pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised
demonstration teaching in a real classroom.The program consists of work in General Education, Foundations of
Teaching, General Science Content, Mathematics Content, Physics Content, Pedagogy, Science Education, Field
Experience, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 2025 C371 Concepts in Science 2 1
EDUC 2219 D097 Educational Foundations 2 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
EDUC 2216 D094 Educational Psychology and Development of Children and 4 2
Adolescents
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
EDUC 2212 D090 The School as a Community of Care 3 3
MATH 3321 C646 Trigonometry and Precalculus 4 3
PHYS 2102 C876 Conceptual Physics 5 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 4
EDUC 2218 D096 Fundamentals of Diverse Learners 4 4
EDUC 2217 D095 Managing Engaging Learning Environments 3 4
CHEM 2111 C832 Chemistry with Lab 4 4
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 5
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 5
PHYS 2300 BYT1 Physics: Mechanics 3 5
EDUC 2213 D091 Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 3 5
EDUC 2215 D093 Assessing Impact on Student Learning 3 6
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
MATH 2415 C283 Calculus II 4 6
PHYS 2310 BZT1 Physics: Waves and Optics 3 6
EDUC 2214 D092 Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 3 7
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 7
PHYS 2320 DPT1 Physics: Electricity and Magnetism 3 7
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 7
PHYS 3262 C738 Space, Time and Motion 4 8
BSSESP 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 123
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
PHYS 4405 C901 Physics: Content Knowledge 2 8
EDUC 3276 C730 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 3 8
EDUC 3275 C728 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4116 C943 Science Methods—Secondary Physics 4 9
EDUC 3412 C937 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 9
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 10
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 10
and Final
EDUC 4764 D150 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 3 10
EDUC 4765 D151 Professional Portfolio 2 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 131
BSSESP 202007 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 124
Master of Arts in Teaching, Elementary Education
The Master of Arts in Teaching Elementary Education (MATELED), is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students at the graduate level to be licensed as K-8 elementary teachers. All work in this degree program is
online with the exception of the demonstration teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter
this program with an undergraduate degree and then progress through educational professional core coursework,
continuing through methods of elementary instruction and assessment. Candidates develop and refine their teaching
skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction.
Observations prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical
experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5053 D166 Foundations of Education 2 1
EDUC 5074 D307 Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children 4 1
and Adolescents
EDUC 5055 D168 Schools as Communities of Care 2 1
EDUC 5056 D169 Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners 3 2
EDUC 5057 D170 Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments 2 2
EDUC 5058 D171 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5059 D172 Assessing Student Learning 2 2
EDUC 5060 D173 Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 2 3
MATH 5127 D128 Mathematics for Elementary Educators 2 3
EDUC 6202 C381 Elementary Mathematics Methods 2 3
EDUC 6380 C380 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 2 3
EDUC 6207 C910 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6203 C382 Elementary Science Methods 2 4
EDUC 6709 DWP2 Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods 1 4
EDUC 6713 EBP2 Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health 1 4
Methods
EDUC 6711 DZP2 Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 1 4
EDUC 5318 D164 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 5319 D165 Children’s Literature 2 5
EDUC 5302 C936 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 2 5
EDUC 6961 D130 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 2 6
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6962 D131 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 2 6
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6963 D132 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 2 6
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6964 D133 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 2 6
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6751 C873 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education 1 6
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 6
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 6
Total CUs: 49
MATELED 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 125
Master of Arts in Teaching, English Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, English Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students at the graduate level for licensure to teach English in a secondary setting, through the development of
pedagogical skills in English curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is
completed online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components,
which prepares teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a
series of sequential experiences beginning with; video-based observations of classroom instructionand participation in
simulated classroom environments. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical
teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real
classroom. Students enter this program with an English major or equivalent and build on the existing knowledge base
of English through the Foundations of Teaching, Teacher Education Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation,
English Pedagogy, video-based classroom observation, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching and
Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5053 D166 Foundations of Education 2 1
EDUC 5074 D307 Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children 4 1
and Adolescents
EDUC 5055 D168 Schools as Communities of Care 2 1
EDUC 5056 D169 Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners 3 2
EDUC 5057 D170 Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments 2 2
EDUC 5058 D171 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5059 D172 Assessing Student Learning 2 2
EDUC 5060 D173 Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 2 3
EDUC 5317 D163 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 2 3
EDUC 5316 D162 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 3
EDUC 5347 C396 English Pedagogy 3 3
EDUC 5256 C945 Preclinical Experiences in English 2 4
EDUC 6973 D142 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 1 2 5
and 2
EDUC 6974 D143 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 3 2 5
and Midterm
EDUC 6975 D144 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 4 2 5
and 5
EDUC 6976 D145 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 6 2 5
and Final
EDUC 5252 C853 Teacher Performance Assessment in English 1 5
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 5
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 5
Total CUs: 39
MATEES 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 126
Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts in Teaching-Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students at the graduate level both to be licensed to teach mathematics in middle grades and to develop
significant skills in mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is
online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which
prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instructionand participation in simulated
classroom environments.Observations prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching
experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real
classroom. Students enter this program with a significant background in mathematics and then proceed through study
in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Mathematics Education, video-based
classroom observation, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching, and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5053 D166 Foundations of Education 2 1
EDUC 5074 D307 Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children 4 1
and Adolescents
EDUC 5055 D168 Schools as Communities of Care 2 1
EDUC 5056 D169 Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners 3 2
EDUC 5057 D170 Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments 2 2
EDUC 5058 D171 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5059 D172 Assessing Student Learning 2 2
EDUC 5060 D173 Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 2 3
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 3
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5317 D163 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 2 3
EDUC 5316 D162 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 4
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 4
EDUC 5303 C931 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 4
EDUC 6965 D134 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 5
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6966 D135 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 5
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6967 D136 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 5
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6968 D137 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 5
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 C914 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 1 5
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 5
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 5
Total CUs: 44
MATMEMG 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 127
Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, MathematicsEducation (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students at the graduate level both to be licensed to teach mathematics in a secondary setting and to
develop significant skills in mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree
program is online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components,
which prepare teacher candidates for the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a
series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instructionand participation in
simulated classroom environments. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical
teaching experiences in K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real
classroom. Students enter this program with a significant background in mathematics and then proceed through study
in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Mathematics Education, video-based
classroom observation, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5053 D166 Foundations of Education 2 1
EDUC 5074 D307 Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children 4 1
and Adolescents
EDUC 5055 D168 Schools as Communities of Care 2 1
EDUC 5056 D169 Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners 3 2
EDUC 5057 D170 Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments 2 2
EDUC 5058 D171 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5059 D172 Assessing Student Learning 2 2
EDUC 5060 D173 Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 2 3
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5317 D163 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 2 3
EDUC 5316 D162 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 3
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 4
EDUC 5102 C882 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 4
EDUC 5103 C884 Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 4
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 4
EDUC 5306 C933 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 5
EDUC 6965 D134 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 6
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6966 D135 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 6
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6967 D136 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 6
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6968 D137 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 2 6
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 C914 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 1 6
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 6
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 6
Total CUs: 46
MATMES 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 128
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching (Secondary Science Education) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students at the graduate level to be licensed to teach secondary science and supports development of significant skills
in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the exception
of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components, which prepare teacher candidates for
the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences
beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction and participation in simulated classroom
environments. Observations prepare candidates for an authentic, collaborative pre-clinical teaching experiences in
K-12 settings. Clinical experiences culminate with supervised demonstration teaching in a real classroom. Students
enter this program with a substantial background in science and proceed through coursework in Foundations of
Teaching, Pedagogy, Science Education, Research, video-based classroom observation, Field Experiences, and
Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5053 D166 Foundations of Education 2 1
EDUC 5074 D307 Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children 4 1
and Adolescents
EDUC 5055 D168 Schools as Communities of Care 2 1
EDUC 5056 D169 Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners 3 2
EDUC 5057 D170 Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments 2 2
EDUC 5058 D171 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 2 2
EDUC 5059 D172 Assessing Student Learning 2 2
EDUC 5060 D173 Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 2 3
EDUC 5317 D163 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 2 3
EDUC 5316 D162 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 3
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 3
EDUC 5041 C645 Science Methods 3 4
EDUC 5304 C938 Preclinical Experiences in Science 2 4
EDUC 6969 D138 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 2 5
1 and 2
EDUC 6970 D139 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 2 5
and Midterm
EDUC 6971 D140 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 2 5
4 and 5
EDUC 6972 D141 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 2 5
and Final
EDUC 6903 C904 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 1 5
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 5
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 5
Total CUs: 41
MATSES 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 129
Master of Arts in Teaching, Special Education
MASTER OF ARTS IN TEACHING WITH A CONCENTRATION IN SPECIAL EDUCATION is a competency-based
program that enables teacher candidates to earn a Master of Arts degree with a concentration in Special Education,
Mild to Moderate disabilities which will lead to an initial licensure in Special Education (K-12) teaching certificate. The
program will be completed online except for preclinical experiences, classroom clinical components, and student
teaching. This program will involve an intensive, fast-paced education in fundamental issues,
methodology, knowledge and skills for special education teachers. With core courses in learning theory and behavior
management, candidates will study educational assessment and intervention while developing skills in building
strategies for successful, inclusive classrooms. Candidates develop and refine their skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations of classroom instruction. The culminating experience
is full-time student teaching with a mentor teacher under the supervision of WGU's clinical experience team in two
special education settings at the K-6 and 7-12 levels. Both placements will support the academic needs of students
with mild-to-moderate disabilities. The Master of Arts in Special Education is a specifically designed program for the
preparation of prospective teachers to work with students with mild to moderate disabilities in today's diverse
inclusionary K-12 classrooms. With the successful completion of program expectations and required assessments in
the major area of teaching, the candidate can seek an institutional recommendation for certification in special
education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5074 D307 Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children 4 1
and Adolescents
EDUC 5055 D168 Schools as Communities of Care 2 1
EDUC 5056 D169 Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners 3 1
SPED 5290 D228 Special Education Practices: Professional, Ethical and Legal 2 2
Guidelines
EDUC 5057 D170 Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments 2 2
EDUC 5058 D171 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment 2 2
SPED 5297 D237 Mathematics Methods and Instruction for Students with 2 2
Mild/Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 5291 D229 Management Strategies for Academic and Social Behavior 3 3
SPED 5292 D230 Assessment and Evaluation Procedures in Special Education 2 3
EDUC 6380 C380 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 2 3
EDUC 6207 C910 Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions 2 3
EDUC 5317 D163 Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions 2 4
SPED 5304 D244 Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 5060 D173 Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning 2 4
SPED 5293 D231 Collaborative Techniques with Partners for Effective IEPs 2 4
SPED 5294 D232 Special Education Methods of Instruction and Intervention 2 5
SPED 5295 D233 Designing Instruction for Elementary Learners with Mild to 2 5
Moderate Exceptionalities
SPED 5296 D234 Designing Instruction for Secondary Learners with Mild to 2 5
Moderate Exceptionalities
EDUC 5298 D238 Preclinical Experiences in Special Education 2 5
SPED 5299 D239 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 2 6
1 and 2
EDUC 4049 D240 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 2 6
3 and Midterm
MATSPED 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 130
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4050 D241 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 2 6
4 and 5
EDUC 4051 D242 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 2 6
6 and Final
EDUC 5303 D243 Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education 1 7
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 7
SPED 5305 D245 Cohort Seminar in Special Education 1 7
Total CUs: 53
MATSPED 202109 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 131
Master of Science, Curriculum and Instruction
The Master of Science in Curriculum and Instruction is a competency-based degree program designed for K-12
teachers who are interested in improving their teaching practice and leading innovation in teaching and learning. The
program is built in alignment with the National Board Professional Teaching Standards and the National Education
Association's Teacher Leadership Competencies. Intended to be practical and application-based, the program
incorporates six pillars of curriculum and instruction: reflective practice, social-emotional learning, evidence-based
practices, technology, leadership, and cultural competency. The competencies of this program focus on in-demand
skills, preparing candidates for careers as instructional coaches, curriculum specialists, and distinguished teacher
leaders.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5062 D182 The Reflective Practitioner 3 1
EDUC 5063 D183 Designing Curriculum and Instruction I 3 1
EDUC 5061 D179 Data-Informed Practices 3 1
EDUC 6302 D187 Differentiated Instruction 3 2
EDUC 5064 D184 Standards-Based Assessment 3 2
EDUC 5065 D185 Designing Curriculum and Instruction II 3 2
EDUC 5066 D186 Learning as a Science 3 3
EDUC 6303 D188 The Collaborative Leader 3 3
EDUC 6300 D180 Educational Research 3 3
EDUC 6301 D181 MSCIN Capstone 5 4
Total CUs: 32
MSCIN 202012 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 132
Master of Science, Educational Leadership
The Master of Science in Educational Leadership is a competency-based degree program that prepares qualified K-12
educators to become state-licensed school principals. The foundation of the program's philosophy is to create
innovative instructional leaders for today's schools. The program is aligned to the NELP, SPA, and PSEL standards.
The candidate learns contemporary theories while engaging in practices related to leading in 21st century schools,
applying new learning at local practicum sites. Graduates of this program enter the field having demonstrated
competencies in leadership practices and ethics, school law, exceptional child services, leading in inclusive schools
with diverse populations, instructional leadership, human resource leadership, school financial management, systems
and operations management, strategic planning, data literacy, and educational inquiry. The candidate is guided
through the program by qualified program mentors, course instructors, and school leaders. The cumulative program
activity consists of a capstone action research project that is conducted in the K-12 school setting.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5288 D016 Leadership Foundations and Ethics 3 1
EDUC 5289 D017 School Law 3 1
EDUC 5292 D020 Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning 3 1
EDUC 5291 D019 Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices 3 2
EDUC 5293 D021 Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction 3 2
EDUC 5290 D018 Leading Inclusive Schools 3 2
EDUC 5294 D022 People and Talent in Educational Leadership 3 3
EDUC 5295 D023 School Financial Leadership 3 3
EDUC 5298 D036 Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional 3 3
Practices
EDUC 5296 D034 Systems Management and School Operations 3 4
EDUC 5297 D035 Educational Inquiry 3 4
EDUC 5299 D037 Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and 3 4
Operations
EDUC 5300 D038 Educational Leadership Capstone 3 5
Total CUs: 39
MSEDL 201905 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 133
Master of Arts, English Language Learning (PreK-12)
The Master of Arts in English Language Learning (PreK-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings and to develop
significant skills in ELL curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes ELL Content and Methodology, Research Fundamentals, and Instructional Design. All students complete a
capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar 3 1
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 2
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 3
EDUC 6754 C360 Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning 1 4
Total CUs: 30
MAELLP12 201501 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 134
Master of Education, Instructional Design
The Master of Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares individuals to improve education and
training results by effectively using technology to support teaching, learning, and performance improvement
endeavors. The principal competencies of this program area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in instructional
design, technology integration, measurement and evaluation, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 1
EDUC 5271 JNT2 Instructional Design Analysis 2 1
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 1
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 1
EDUC 3252 MEC1 Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation 2 2
EDUC 6723 JRT2 Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation 2 2
EDUC 6724 JST2 Evaluation Process and Recommendation 2 2
EDUC 6722 JQT2 Issues in Measurement and Evaluation 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6030 C636 MED, Instructional Design Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MEDID 201504 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 135
Master of Education, Learning and Technology
The Master of Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares individuals to improve education and
training results by effectively using technology to support teaching, learning, and performance improvement
endeavors. The principal competencies of this program area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in instructional
design, technology integration, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 1
EDUC 5271 JNT2 Instructional Design Analysis 2 1
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 1
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 1
EDUC 6726 TDT1 Technology Design Portfolio 2 2
EDUC 6727 TET1 Issues in Technology Integration 2 2
EDUC 6725 TAT2 Technology Production 4 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6021 C626 MED, Learning and Technology Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MEDLT 201504 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 136
Master of Arts, Mathematics Education (K-6)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (K-6) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers both to teach mathematics in grades K - 6 and to develop significant skills in mathematics curriculum
development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online, and includes Mathematics Content and
Research Fundamentals. All students complete a Capstone Project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5210 AOA2 Number Sense and Functions 4 1
MATH 5220 AUA2 Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities 4 1
MATH 5230 AVA2 Geometry and Statistics 4 2
EDUC 6836 MFT2 Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense 2 2
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6029 C635 MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MAMEK6 201504 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 137
Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in middle grades and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, Mathematics Education and Research Fundamentals. All students complete a culminating
Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5015 C912 College Algebra 3 1
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 1
MATH 6321 C647 Trigonometry and Precalculus 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5030 C992 College Geometry 2 2
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 2
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 2
MATH 6711 C613 Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge 1 2
MATH 5410 QJT2 Calculus I 2 2
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 6753 C887 MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
Total CUs: 32
MAMEMG 201810 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 138
Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in middle grades and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Middle School Mathematics Content and Mathematics Education. All students complete a culminating Teacher Work
Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 6321 C647 Trigonometry and Precalculus 2 1
MATH 5030 C992 College Geometry 2 1
MATH 5406 C363 Calculus I 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5420 CQC2 Calculus II 2 2
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 2
MATH 5520 TQC2 Probability and Statistics II 2 2
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 2
EDUC 5102 C882 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 5103 C884 Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 3
MATH 6331 C612 Mathematics: Content Knowledge 1 3
MATH 5100 C878 Mathematical Modeling and Applications 2 3
MATH 6311 C657 Calculus III 2 4
MATH 6310 RKT2 Linear Algebra 2 4
MATH 6320 QDT2 Abstract Algebra 2 4
MATH 5104 C886 Advanced Calculus 2 4
EDUC 6752 C874 MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance 6 5
Assessment
Total CUs: 39
MAMES 201810 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 139
Master of Arts Science Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts Science Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers for an endorsement in middle levelgeneral science and provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
General Science Content, Biology Content, Geosciences Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
BIO 5111 C907 Introduction to Biology 2 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
BIO 5105 C653 Heredity and Genetics 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
PHYS 5100 RNT2 General Physics 3 2
GEOS 5104 C895 Astronomy 2 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 3
GEOS 5513 C926 Earth: Inside and Out 3 3
SCIE 6405 C616 Middle School Science: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 3
EDUC 5048 C975 Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science 3 4
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 34
MASEMG 201806 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 140
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondary biology and provides the opportunity to develop
skills in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes General Science Content, Biology Content, and Science Education courses. All students complete a
culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
BIO 5111 C907 Introduction to Biology 2 1
BIO 5120 C870 Human Anatomy and Physiology 3 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
BIO 5106 C889 Molecular and Cellular Biology 3 2
BIO 5105 C653 Heredity and Genetics 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
BIO 5101 C655 Zoology 2 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 3
BIO 5247 C737 Evolution 3 3
BIO 6405 C614 Biology: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5044 C976 Science Methods—Secondary Biology 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 33
MASESB 201806 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 141
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
The Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers for an endorsement insecondary chemistry and provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Chemistry Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
CHEM 5409 C672 General Chemistry I with Lab 3 1
CHEM 5410 C673 General Chemistry II with Lab 3 1
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 2
CHEM 5310 BVT2 Physical Chemistry 2 2
CHEM 5300 BWT2 Inorganic Chemistry 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
CHEM 5250 AIT2 Organic Chemistry 2 3
SCIE 5501 C625 Biochemistry 2 3
EDUC 5512 C267 Climate Change 3 3
CHEM 6405 C617 Chemistry: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5045 C977 Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry 3 4
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 34
MASESC 201806 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 142
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondaryearth and space science and provides the
opportunity to develop skills in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree
program is online and includes Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Earth Sciences Content, and Science
Education courses. All students complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
PHYS 5100 RNT2 General Physics 3 1
GEOS 5101 C650 Geology I: Physical 3 1
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
GEOS 5103 C893 Geology II: Earth Systems 3 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 2
GEOS 5104 C895 Astronomy 2 2
EDUC 5511 C266 The Ocean Systems 3 3
GEOS 6405 C618 Earth Science: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5046 C978 Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 3
Total CUs: 32
MASESE 201806 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 143
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Physics)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Physics) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondary physicsand provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Physics Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 1
PHYS 5101 C659 Conceptual Physics 3 1
PHYS 5150 BYT2 Physics: Mechanics 2 2
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 2
PHYS 5310 BZT2 Physics: Waves and Optics 2 2
PHYS 5320 DPT2 Physics: Electricity and Magnetism 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 3
PHYS 5248 C739 Space, Time and Motion 3 3
PHYS 6405 C615 Physics: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5052 C979 Science Methods—Secondary Physics 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment 6 4
Total CUs: 32
MASESP 201806 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 144
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (PreK-12)
The English Language Learning (ELL) Endorsement Preparation Program is a competency-based program that
prepares already licensed teachers to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings. All work in
this degree program is online and includes ELL content and methodology.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar 3 1
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 2
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 3
Total CUs: 25
ENDELL 201112 © Western Governors University 12/27/21 145
Courses
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Course-Descriptions-and-Course-of-Study/ta-p/38923
AFT2 - Accreditation Audit - Accreditation Audit covers regulatory audits, resource assessment, quality improvement, patient care improvement,
organization plans, risk management, effective interaction, and compliance as evidenced during an accreditation audit.
AIT2 - Organic Chemistry - Organic Chemistry focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize
and group organic compounds in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity based on common bonds found within an organic compound.
AMT2 - Service Line Development - Service Line Development will address how to critically assess the competitive marketplace as well as the
internal environment to establish a new line of business. Topics include needs assessment, international healthcare trends, service line management,
revenue analysis, costs and productivity, communication, negotiation, health policy, health legislation, and facilities management, which are variables
in the evaluation process.
AOA2 - Number Sense and Functions - Number Sense and Functions is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of
work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as
number sense, patterns and functions, integers and order of operations, fractions, decimals, and percentages.
ASA1 - Assessment Theory and Practice - Assessment Theory and Practice focuses on issues central to assessment in the ELL environment,
including high-stakes testing, standardized tests, placement and exit assessment, formative and summative assessments, and making adaptations in
assessments to meet the needs of ELL students.
AUA2 - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities is a
performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an
original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as coordinate pairs and graphing, ratios and proportional reasoning, and equations and
inequalities.
AVA2 - Geometry and Statistics - Geometry and Statistics is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This
portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as geometry and
measurement, statistics and probability.
BVT1 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics,
reaction kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BVT2 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics,
reaction kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BWT1 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the
properties and behavior of any compound avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry:
the structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BWT2 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the
properties and behavior of any compound, avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry:
the structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BYT1 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BYT2 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BZT1 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics. Students will
study basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light, with even further applications to optical instruments. They will
also learn about thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
BZT2 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics. Students will
study basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light with even further applications to optical instruments. This
course will also cover thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
C100 - Introduction to Humanities - This introductory humanities course allows candidates to practice essential writing, communication, and critical
thinking skills necessary to engage in civic and professional interactions as mature, informed adults. Whether through studying literature, visual and
performing arts, or philosophy, all humanities courses stress the need to form reasoned, analytical, and articulate responses to cultural and creative
works. Studying a wide variety of creative works allows candidates to more effectively enter the global community with a broad and enlightened
perspective.
C104 - Elementary Social Studies Methods - Elementary Social Studies Methods helps students learn how to implement effective social studies
instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include social studies themes, promoting cultural diversity, integrated social studies across the
curriculum, social studies learning environments, assessing social studies understanding, differentiated instruction for social studies, technology for
social studies instruction, and standards-based social studies instruction. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and
Presentation in Elementary or Special Education.
C105 - Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods - Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods helps students learn how to implement
effective visual and performing arts instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include integrating arts across the curriculum, music education,
visual arts, dance and movement, dramatic arts, differentiating instruction for visual and performing arts, and promoting cultural diversity through visual
and performing arts instruction. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and
Assessment OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary or Special
Education.
C107 - Anatomy and Physiology I - Anatomy and Physiology I examines the structures and functions of the human body. The course is designed to
provide students with a thorough understanding of human anatomy and physiology, including the interdependent operational relationships among
them. Students will use a dissection lab to study organ systems of the human body in their healthy state, including the digestive, skeletal, sensory,
respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine, and renal systems. By examining these organ
systems in a healthy state, healthcare professionals are more adept at recognizing when something is functioning abnormally, which is a key
component to providing effective care to patients. For nursing students, this is the first of two anatomy and physiology courses within the program of
study. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 146
C108 - Elementary Science Methods - Elementary Science Methods helps students learn how to implement effective science instruction in the
elementary classroom. Topics include processes of science, science inquiry, science learning environments, instructional strategies for science,
differentiating instruction for science, assessing science understanding, technology for science instruction, standards-based science instruction,
integrating science across the curriculum, and science beyond the classroom. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and
Presentation in Elementary or Special Education.
C109 - Elementary Mathematics Methods - Elementary Mathematics Methods helps students learn how to implement effective math instruction in
the elementary classroom. Topics include differentiated math instruction, mathematical communication, mathematical tools for instruction, assessing
math understanding, integrating math across the curriculum, critical thinking development, standards-based mathematics instruction, and
mathematical models and representation. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction,
and Assessment OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary or Special
Education.
C121 - Survey of United States History - This course presents a broad and thematic survey of U.S. history from European colonization to the mid-
twentieth century. Students will explore how historical events and major themes in American history have affected a diverse population.
C165 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical, everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
C168 - Critical Thinking and Logic - Reasoning and Problem Solving helps candidates internalize a systematic process for exploring issues that
takes them beyond an unexamined point of view and encourages them to become more self-aware thinkers by applying principles of problem
identification and clarification, planning and information gathering, identifying assumptions and values, analyzing and interpreting information and data,
reaching well-founded conclusions, and identifying the role of critical thinking in disciplines and professions.
C170 - Data Management - Applications - This course covers conceptual data modeling and provides an introduction to MySQL. Students will learn
how to create simple to complex SELECT queries including subqueries and joins, and students will also learn how to use SQL to update and delete
data. Topics covered in this course include exposure to MySQL; developing physical schemas; creating and modifying databases, tables, views,
foreign keys/primary keys (FKs/PKs), and indexes; populating tables; and developing simple Select-From-Where (SFW) queries to complex 3+ table
join queries.
C172 - Network and Security - Foundations - Network and Security - Foundations introduces students to the components of a computer network
and the concept and role of communication protocols. The course covers widely used categorical classifications of networks (e.g., LAN, MAN, WAN,
WLAN, PAN, SAN, CAN, and VPN) as well as network topologies, physical devices, and layered abstraction. The course also introduces students to
basic concepts of security, covering vulnerabilities of networks and mitigation techniques, security of physical media, and security policies and
procedures. This course has no prerequisites.
C173 - Scripting and Programming - Foundations - Scripting and Programming - Foundations provides an introduction to programming, covering
basic elements such as variables, data types, flow control, and design concepts. The course is language-agnostic in nature, ending in a survey of
languages and introduces the distinction between interpreted and compiled languages. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C175 - Data Management - Foundations - This course introduces students to the concepts and terminology used in the field of data management.
Students will be introduced to Structured Query Language (SQL) and will learn how to use Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation
Language (DML) commands to define, retrieve, and manipulate data. This course covers differentiations of data—structured vs. unstructured and
quasi-structured (relational, hierarchical, XML, textual, visual, etc); it also covers aspects of data management (quality, policy, storage methodologies).
Foundational concepts of data security are included.
C176 - Business of IT - Project Management - In this course, students will build on industry standard concepts, techniques, and processes to
develop a comprehensive foundation for project management activities. During a project's life cycle, students will develop the critical skills necessary
to initiate, plan, execute, monitor, control, and close a project. Students will apply best practices in areas such as scope management, resource
allocation, project planning, project scheduling, quality control, risk management, performance measurement, and project reporting. This course
prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Project+.
C178 - Network and Security - Applications - Network and Security - Applications prepares students for the CompTIA Security+ certification exam.
Successfully completing the course ensures the student will demonstrate the knowledge and skills required to install and configure systems to secure
applications, networks, and devices; perform a threat analysis and respond with appropriate mitigation techniques; participate in risk mitigation
activities; and operate with an awareness of applicable policies, laws, and regulations. The following course is a prerequisite: C480 Networks.
C179 - Business of IT - Applications - This course introduces IT students to information systems (IS). The course includes important topics related
to the management of information systems (MIS), such as system development and business continuity. The course also provides an overview of
management tools and issue tracking systems.
C180 - Introduction to Psychology - In this course, students will develop an understanding of psychology and how it helps them better understand
others and themselves. Students will learn general theories about psychological development, the structure of the brain, and how psychologists study
behavior. They will gain an understanding of both normal and disordered psychological behaviors, as well as general applications of the science of
psychology in society (such as personality typing and counseling).
C181 - Survey of United States Constitution and Government - Ready to work on Constitution and Government? Please contact your program
mentor to be moved to the correct course.
C182 - Introduction to IT - Introduction to IT examines information technology as a discipline and the various roles and functions of the IT department
as business support. Students are presented with various IT disciplines including systems and services, network and security, scripting and
programming, data management, and business of IT, with a survey of technologies in every area and how they relate to each other and to the
business.
C188 - Software Engineering - This course introduces the concepts of software engineering to students who have completed the core courses in
programming and project management. The principles build on previously acquired concepts, switching the emphasis from programming simple
routines, to engineering robust and scalable software solutions. This course does not cover programming, but provides an overview of software
engineering processes, and their challenging nature focusing on the need for a disciplined approach to software engineering. A generic process
framework provides the groundwork for formal process models. Prescriptive process models such as the Waterfall Model and Agile Development are
included. An introduction to the elements and phases of software engineering is included which explores requirements engineering, design concepts,
and software quality.
C190 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological
research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment.
Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment
to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 147
C191 - Operating Systems for Programmers - This course covers operating systems from the perspective of a programmer including the placement
of the operating system in the layered application development model. Primarily, OSs provide memory management, task scheduling, and CPU
allocation. Secondarily, OSs provide tools for file storage/access, permission control, event handling, network access, and cross-process interaction.
OSs also provide tools for debugging problems within a single process or within groups of programs.
C195 - Software II - Advanced Java Concepts - Software II – Advanced Java Concepts refines object-oriented programming expertise and builds
database and file server application development skills. You will learn about and put into action lambda expressions, collections, input/output,
advanced error handling, and the newest features of Java 11 to develop software that meets business requirements. This course requires intermediate
expertise in object-oriented programming and the Java language.
C196 - Mobile Application Development - This course introduces students to programming for mobile devices using a software development kit
(SDK). Students with previous knowledge of programming will learn how to install and utilize a SDK, build a basic mobile application, build a mobile
application using a graphical user interface (GUI), adapt applications to different mobile devices, save data, execute and debug mobile applications
using emulators, and deploy a mobile application.
C200 - Managing Organizations and Leading People - This course covers principles of effective management and leadership that maximize
organizational performance. The following topics are included: the role and functions of a manager, analysis of personal leadership styles, approaches
to self-awareness and self-assessment, and application of foundational leadership and management skills.
C201 - Business Acumen - The Business Acumen course introduces you to the operation of the business enterprise and the role of management in
directing the activities of the business. You will examine the roles of management in the context of business functions such as marketing, operations,
accounting, and finance.
C202 - Managing Human Capital - This course focuses on strategies and tools that managers use to maximize employee contribution and create
organizational excellence. You will learn talent management strategies to motivate and develop employees as well as best practices to manage
performance for added value.
C203 - Becoming an Effective Leader - This course explores major theories and approaches to leadership, leadership style evaluation, and personal
leadership development while focusing on motivation, development, and achievement of others. You will learn how to influence followers, manage
organizational culture, and enhance your effectiveness as a leader.
C204 - Management Communication - This course prepares students for the communication challenges in organizations. Topics examined include
theories and strategies of communication, persuasion, conflict management, and ethics that enhance communication to various audiences.
C205 - Leading Teams - This course helps students establish team objectives, align the team purpose with organizational goals, build credibility and
trust, and develop the talents of individuals to enhance team performance.
C206 - Ethical Leadership - This course examines the ethical issues and dilemmas managers face. This course provides a framework for analysis of
management-related ethical issues and decision-making action required for satisfactory resolution of these issues.
C207 - Data-Driven Decision Making - This course presents critical problem-solving methodologies, including field research and data collection
methods that enhance organizational performance. Topics include quantitative analysis, statistical and quality tools. You will improve your ability to
use data to make informed decisions.
C208 - Change Management and Innovation - This course provides an overview of change theories and innovation practices. This course will
emphasize the role of leadership in influencing and managing change in response to challenges and opportunities facing organizations.
C209 - Strategic Management - This course focuses on models and practices of strategic management including developing and implementing both
short- and long-term strategy and evaluating performance to achieve strategic goals and objectives.
C210 - Management and Leadership Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MSML curriculum that provides an integrative
experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from previously completed
coursework and demonstrate an understanding of management and leadership development and practices.
C211 - Global Economics for Managers - This course examines how economic tools, techniques, and indicators can be used for solving
organizational problems related to competitiveness, productivity, and growth. You will explore the management implications of a variety of economic
concepts and effective strategies to make decisions within a global context.
C212 - Marketing - Marketing Fundamentals introduces students to principles of the marketing environment, social media, consumer behavior,
marketing research, and market segmentation. Students will also explore marketing strategies that are related to products and services, distribution
channels, promotions, sales, and pricing.
C213 - Accounting for Decision Makers - This course provides you with the accounting knowledge and skills to assess and manage a business.
Topics include the accounting cycle, financial statements, taxes, and budgeting. This course will improve students’ ability to understand reports and
use accounting information to plan and make sound business decisions.
C214 - Financial Management - This course covers practical approaches to analysis and decision-making in the administration of corporate funds,
including capital budgeting, working capital management, and cost of capital. Topics include financial planning, management of working capital,
analysis of investment opportunities, sources of long-term financing, government regulations, and global influences. This course will improve students’
ability to interpret financial statements and manage corporate finances.
C215 - Operations Management - This course focuses on the strategic importance of operations management to overall performance. This course
also emphasizes principles of supply chain management relevant to a variety of business operations ranging from manufacturing goods to retail
services. You will examine the various planning, control, and decision-making tools and techniques of the operations function.
C216 - MBA Capstone - MBA Capstone is the culminating course in the MBA program that provides an integrative experience with all competencies
and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from previously completed coursework and demonstrate an
understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This course promotes a meaningful connection between the academic
work and career experience.
C217 - Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan - This course introduces candidates to human development across the lifespan. This
will include an introductory survey of cognitive, psychological, and physical growth. Candidates will gain an understanding of the emergence of
personality, identity, gender and sexuality, social relationships, emotion, language, and moral development through life. This will include milestones
such as education, achievement, work, dying, and death.
C218 - MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone - MBA Information Technology Management Capstone is the culminating course in
the MBA ITM program that provides an integrative experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students
synthesize concepts from previously completed coursework and demonstrate an understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a
business. This course promotes a meaningful connection between the academic work and career experience.
C219 - MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone - MBA Healthcare Management Capstone is the culminating course in the MBA HCM program that
provides an integrative experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from
previously completed coursework and demonstrate an understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This course
promotes a meaningful connection between the academic work and career experience.
C224 - Research Foundations - The Research Foundations course focuses on the essential concepts in educational research, including quantitative,
qualitative, mixed, and action research. This course also teaches students concepts about measurement and assessment, as well as strategies for
obtaining warranted research results.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 148
C225 - Research Questions and Literature Review - The Research Questions and Literature Reviews course focuses on how to conduct a thorough
literature review that addresses and identifies important educational research topics, problems, and questions, and helps determine the appropriate
kind of research and data needed to answer one's research questions and hypotheses.
C226 - Research Design and Analysis - The Research Design and Analysis course focuses on applying strategies for effective design of empirical
research studies. Particular emphasis is placed on selecting or constructing the design that will provide the most valid results, analyzing the kind of
data that would be obtained, and making defensible interpretations and drawing appropriate conclusions based on the data.
C227 - Research Proposals - Research Proposals focuses on planning and writing a well-organized and complete research proposal. The
relationship of the sections in a research proposal to the sections in a research report will be highlighted.
C230 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Clinical - This course will assist students to become familiar with clinical aspects of
health promotion and disease prevention, applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will practice skills based on clinical
priorities, methodology, and resources that positively influence the health of populations. Students will demonstrate critical thinking skills by applying
principles of community health nursing in a variety of settings. Students will design, implement and evaluate a project in community health. Students
will develop health promotion and disease prevention strategies for population groups.
C232 - Introduction to Human Resource Management - This course provides an introduction to the management of human resources, the function
within an organization that focuses on recruitment, management, and direction for the people who work in the organization. Students will be introduced
to topics such as strategic workforce planning and employment; compensation and benefits; training and development; employee and labor relations;
and occupational health, safety, and security.
C233 - Employment Law - This course reviews the legal and regulatory framework surrounding employment, including recruitment, termination, and
discrimination law. The course topics include employment-at-will, EEO, ADA, OSHA, and other laws affecting the workplace. This course covers how
to analyze current trends and issues in employment law and apply this knowledge to manage risk effectively in the employment relationship.
C234 - Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection - This course focuses on building a highly skilled workforce by using effective strategies
and tactics for recruiting, selecting, hiring, and retaining employees.
C235 - Training and Development - Training and Development focuses on the development of human capital (i.e., growing talent) by applying
effective learning theories and practices for training and developing employees. The course will help develop essential skills for improving and
empowering organizations through high-caliber training and development processes. There are no prerequisites.
C236 - Compensation and Benefits - Compensation and Benefits develops competence in the design and implementation of compensation and
benefits systems in an organization. The total rewards perspective integrates tangible rewards (e.g., salary, bonuses) with employee benefits (e.g.,
health insurance, retirement plan) and intangible rewards (e.g., location, work environment). This perspective allows students to use all forms of
rewards fairly and effectively to enable job satisfaction and organizational performance. There are no prerequisites.
C237 - Taxation I - This course focuses on the taxation of individuals. It provides an overview of income taxes of both individuals and business
entities in order to enhance awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure and analyze the effect of various tax options. The
course will introduce taxation of sole proprietorships. Students will learn principles of individual taxation and how to develop effective personal tax
strategies for individuals. Students will also be introduced to tax research of complex taxation issues.
C239 - Advanced Tax Concepts - This course is designed to enhance awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure and
analyze the effect of various tax options. This course provides an overview of income taxes on individuals, corporations, associations, and corporate
distributions, while emphasizing the role of taxes in business decisions and business strategy. Also examined will be federal tax laws applicable to
individuals and corporations (and shareholders), including tax research, tax compliance, and tax planning.
C243 - Advanced Financial Accounting - This course builds upon your accounting knowledge by focusing on advanced financial accounting topics
such as consolidations, partnership accounting, and international accounting.
C253 - Advanced Managerial Accounting - This course introduces the complexity and functionality of managerial accounting systems within an
organization. It covers the topics of product costing (including activity-based costing), decision-making (including capital budgeting), profitability
analysis, budgeting, performance evaluation, and reporting related to managerial decision-making. This course provides the opportunity for a detailed
study of how managerial accounting information supports the operational and strategic needs of an organization and how managers use accounting
information for decision-making, planning, and controlling activities within organizations.
C254 - Fraud and Forensic Accounting - This course provides a framework for detecting and preventing financial statement fraud. Topics include
the profession’s focus and legislation of fraud, revenue- and inventory-related fraud, and liability, asset, and inadequate disclosure fraud.
C255 - Introduction to Geography - This course will discuss geographic concepts, places and regions, physical and human systems, and the
environment.
C263 - The Ocean Systems - In this course, learners investigate the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere,
biosphere, geosphere, and hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include: origins of Earth's oceans and the early history of life; physical
characteristics and geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water, and how ocean surface
currents and deep circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the
effects of human activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C264 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change. Students will learn how the climate system works; what factors cause
climate to change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models,
observations, and theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course
explores evidence for changes in ocean temperature, sea level, and acidity due to global warming. Students will learn how climate change today is
different from past climate cycles and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course
looks at the connection between human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic, and
environmental consequences of climate change.
C266 - The Ocean Systems - This course investigates the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere, biosphere,
geosphere, hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include the origins of Earth’s oceans and the early history of life; physical characteristics and
geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water and how ocean surface currents and deep
circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the effects of human
activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C267 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change and covers how the climate system works; what factors cause climate
to change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models, observations,
and theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course explores evidence
for changes in ocean temperature, sea level, and acidity due to global warming. It covers how climate change today is different from past climate
cycles and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course looks at the connection
between human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic, and environmental consequences of
climate change.
C268 - Spreadsheets - The Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to analyze business problems. Students
will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business/accounting applications (e.g., using essential spreadsheet
functions, formulas, charts, etc.)
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 149
C273 - Introduction to Sociology - This course teaches students to think like sociologists, or, in other words, to see and understand the hidden rules,
or norms, by which people live, and how they free or restrain behavior. Students will learn about socializing institutions, such as schools and families,
as well as workplace organizations and governments. Participants will also learn how people deviate from the rules by challenging norms and how
such behavior may result in social change, either on a large scale or within small groups.
C277 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of
operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets
of real numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, trees and networks, and permutation and combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C278 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include: real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C280 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data, including representations, constructions and interpretation of graphical displays (e.g., box
plots, histograms, cumulative frequency plots, scatter plots). Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. Candidates should have completed a
course in College Algebra before engaging in this course.
C282 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use differential
calculus of one variable and technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains and ranges; limits,
continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and sum rules applied to
polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Precalculus is a prerequisite for this course.
C283 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills necessary to
apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include antiderivatives;
indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; definite integrals; acceleration, velocity, position, and
initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration; improper integration;
area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations; direction fields;
growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C284 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help students develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
become prospective and practicing educators. Students will be able to use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the learning of
mathematics. This course focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and planning instruction, with methods based on
research and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an
effective secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C285 - Mathematics History and Technology - In this course, you will learn about a variety of technological tools for doing mathematics, and
develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. You will come to understand that mathematics is a very human subject
that comes from the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change, as well as the micro-level actions of individuals with personal, professional,
and philosophical motivations. You will focus on the historical development of mathematics including contributions of significant figures and diverse
cultures. Most importantly, you will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and historical information to create an enriching student-centered
mathematical learning environment.
C304 - Professional Roles and Values - This course explores the unique role nurses play in healthcare, beginning with the history and evolution of
the nursing profession. The responsibilities and accountability of professional nurses are covered, including cultural competency, advocacy for patient
rights, and the legal and ethical issues related to supervision and delegation. Professional conduct, leadership, the public image of nursing, the work
environment, and issues of social justice are also addressed.
C306 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; greatest common denominator
(GCD) and least common multiple (LCM); order of operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and
geometric sequences; ratio and proportion; subsets of real numbers; logic and truth tables; graphs; trees and networks; and permutation and
combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C307 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C308 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C309 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C310 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C311 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C312 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C313 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C314 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C315 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 150
C316 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C317 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C318 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C319 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C320 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C321 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C322 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C339 - Cohort Seminar - Cohort Seminar provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during their demonstration teaching period by
providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates their demonstration of competence in
becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom, exploring community resources, building
collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C340 - Cohort Seminar in Special Education - Cohort Seminar in Special Education provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during
their demonstration teaching period by providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates
their demonstration of competence in becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom,
exploring community resources, building collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C341 - Cohort Seminar - Cohort Seminar provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during their demonstration teaching period by
providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates their demonstration of competence in
becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom, exploring community resources, building
collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C347 - Professional Portfolio - Professional Portfolio requires candidates to create an online teaching portfolio that demonstrates professional
beliefs, growth, and effective teaching practices from the Demonstration Teaching experience. The portfolio includes reflective essays (educational
beliefs, professional growth, and collaboration with stakeholders) and professional artifacts (resume and artifacts with commentary on academic
language, systems of student support, education technology, and professional communication with families) developed and acquired during
Demonstration Teaching.
C360 - Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned
during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of
your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C361 - Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research - The Evidence Based Practice course will help you to learn how to design and
conduct research to answer important questions about improving nursing practice and patient care delivery outcomes. After you are introduced to the
basics of evidence-based practice, you will continue to implement the principles throughout your clinical experience. This will allow you to graduate
with more competence and confidence to become a leader in the healthcare environment.
C362 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply
differential calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative, the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration, optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's Rule. Pre-Calculus is a pre-requisite for this course.
C363 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply
differential calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration; optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's rule. Precalculus is a prerequisite for this course.
C365 - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention helps students learn how to implement effective
language arts instruction and intervention in the elementary classroom. Topics include written and spoken English, expanding students' knowledge,
literature rich environments, differentiated instruction, technology for reading and writing, assessment strategies for reading and writing, and strategies
for developing academic language. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C367 - Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods - Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods helps students learn how to
implement effective physical and health education instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include healthy lifestyles, student safety, student
nutrition, physical education, differentiated instruction for physical and health education, physical education across the curriculum, and public policy in
health and physical education. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and
Assessment OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary or Special
Education.
C371 - Concepts in Science - Concepts in Science for undergraduates provides students seeking a bachelor's degree and initial teacher licensure in
science education with an introduction to essential science themes present within and across all science disciplines, including chemistry, physics,
biology, and the geosciences. These themes include comprehending the magnitude of the physical and natural world, analyzing and converting
measurements, understanding the basic nature and behavior of matter and energy, examining atomic structure, identifying and naming basic types of
chemical bonds, and analyzing and interpreting scientific data. Concepts in Science provides a solid foundation for future, in-depth scientific studies
and should be taken prior to any other science content course. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 151
C373 - General Chemistry I with Lab - General Chemistry I with Lab for undergraduates provides students seeking initial teacher licensure in
secondary chemistry with an introduction to the field of chemistry, the branch of science that studies the composition, structure, properties, and
behavior of matter. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name
chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of
matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in
Science is a prerequisite for this course.
C374 - General Chemistry II with Lab - C374: General Chemistry II with Lab for undergraduates continues the study of general chemistry for
students seeking initial teacher licensure in secondary chemistry. Building on the topics covered in General Chemistry I, General Chemistry II
examines the behavior of gases and solutions, reaction rates and equilibrium, acids and bases, and oxidation-reduction reactions. Also, this course
provides an introduction to three sub-disciplines of chemistry: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and nuclear chemistry. Laboratory experiences
reinforce the essential skills required for conducting successful scientific investigations. C373: General Chemistry I for undergraduates is a
prerequisite for this course.
C375 - Survey of World History - Through a thematic approach, this course explores the history of human societies over 5,000 years. Candidates
examine political and social structures, religious beliefs, economic systems, and patterns in trade, as well as many cultural attributes that came to
distinguish different societies around the globe over time. Special attention is given to relationships between these societies and the way geographic
and environmental factors influence human development.
C380 - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention helps students learn to implement effective
language arts instruction and intervention in the elementary classroom. Topics include written and spoken English, student knowledge expansion,
literature-rich environments, differentiated instruction, technology for reading and writing, assessment strategies for reading and writing, and strategies
for developing academic language. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and
Assessment OR Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
C381 - Elementary Mathematics Methods - Elementary Mathematics Methods helps students learn to implement effective mathematics instruction in
the elementary classroom. Topics include differentiated mathematics instruction, mathematical communication, mathematical tools for instruction,
assessing mathematics understanding, integrating mathematics across the curriculum, critical thinking development, standards based mathematics
instruction, and mathematical models and representation. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to
Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
C382 - Elementary Science Methods - Elementary Science Methods helps students learn how to implement effective science instruction in the
elementary classroom. Topics include processes of science, science inquiry, science learning environments, instructional strategies for science,
differentiated instruction for science, assessing science understanding, technology for science instruction, standards based science instruction,
integrating science across curriculum, and science beyond the classroom. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
C388 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. Science is a humanistic and social endeavor and serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for
observing, questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain
the nature and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations,
make decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C389 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. A humanistic and social endeavor, science serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for observing,
questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain the nature
and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations, make
decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C393 - IT Foundations - IT Foundations is the first course in a two-part series that will prepare you for the CompTIA A+ exam, Part I. This course
focuses mostly on hardware and will afford you the skills you need to support five core components: Mobile Devices; Networking; Hardware;
Virtualization and Cloud Computing; and Network and Hardware Troubleshooting. These are essential skills to set up and troubleshoot any system.
Whether you work in a data center or an office, most of your work as an IT professional will execute in a hardware platform; understanding the
hardware layer of the IT infrastructure will allow you to work more efficiently, provide solutions for business requirements, and be a key contributor in
your company.
C394 - IT Applications - IT Applications explores personal computer components and their functions in a desktop system. Topics cover computer
data storage and retrieval, including classifying, installing, configuring, optimizing, upgrading, and troubleshooting printers, laptops, portable devices,
operating systems, networks, and system security. Other areas in this course include recommending appropriate tools, diagnostic procedures,
preventive maintenance, and troubleshooting techniques for personal computer components in a desktop system. The course then finishes with
strategies for identifying, preventing, and reporting safety hazards in a technological environment; effective communication with colleagues and clients;
and job-related professional behavior. This course is designed to build the skills to support four core components: operating systems, security,
software troubleshooting, and operational procedures. These are core competencies for IT professionals from cloud engineers to data analysts, and
these competencies will empower students with a better understanding of the tools used during their careers.
C396 - English Pedagogy - English Pedagogy examines pedagogical applications for the teaching of reading, literature, composition, and related
English Language Arts (ELA) content and skills for middle and secondary schools. Focused on fostering and developing pedagogical content
knowledge in the aforementioned areas, students will analyze assessment strategies and incorporate methods of literacy instruction into their
instructional planning to meet the needs of diverse learners. This course helps students prepare and develop skills for classroom practice, lesson
planning, and working in school settings. C397 Preclinical Experiences in English is a prerequisite.
C405 - Anatomy and Physiology II - This course introduces advanced concepts of human anatomy and physiology through the investigation of the
structures and functions of the body's organ systems. Students will have the opportunity to explore the body through laboratory experience and apply
the concepts covered in this course. For nursing students, this is the second of two anatomy and physiology courses within the program of study.
C425 - Healthcare Delivery Systems, Regulation, and Compliance - This course provides an overview of the U.S. healthcare system and focuses
on developing an understanding of the various sectors and roles involved in this complex industry. Policy and compliance issues are also addressed to
facilitate an appreciation for the highly regulated nature of healthcare delivery.
C426 - Healthcare Values and Ethics - This course explores ethical standards and considerations common to the healthcare environment such as
access to care, confidentiality, the allocation of limited resources, and billing practices. This course also focuses on the distinct value system
associated with the healthcare industry, as well as the values of professionalism.
C427 - Technology Applications in Healthcare - This course explores how technology continues to change and influence the healthcare industry.
Practical managerial applications are explored as well as the legal, ethical, and practical aspects of access to health and disease information.
Ensuring the protection of private health information is also emphasized.
C428 - Financial Resource Management in Healthcare - Financial Resource Management in Healthcare
This course examines the financial environment of the healthcare industry including principles involved in managed care. It also explores the revenue
and expense structures for different sectors within the industry while emphasizing funding and reimbursement practices of healthcare.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 152
C429 - Healthcare Operations Management - This course builds upon basic principles of management, organizational behavior, and leadership.
Specific processes and business principles for managing operations in interdependent and multi-disciplinary healthcare organizations are explored.
Marketing strategies, communication skills, and the ability to establish and maintain relationships while ensuring productivity that is efficient, safe, and
meets the needs of all stakeholders is emphasized.
C430 - Healthcare Quality Improvement and Risk Management - This course emphasizes principles of quality management and risk management
in order to ensure safety, maximize patient outcomes, and continuously improve organizational outcomes. This course also examines the broader
impact of organizational culture and its influence on productivity, quality, and risk.
C431 - Healthcare Research and Statistics - This course builds upon an understanding of research methods and quantitative analysis. Concepts of
population health, epidemiology, and evidence-based practices provide the foundation for understanding the importance of data for informing
healthcare organizational decisions.
C432 - Healthcare Management and Strategy - Healthcare Management and Strategy
This course builds upon basic principles of strategic management and explores healthcare organizational structures and processes. The importance of
the collaborative nature and interrelationships among business functions is emphasized. Creating a healthcare vision and designing business plans
within a healthcare environment is also examined.
C439 - Healthcare Management Capstone - This course is the culminating experience and assessment of healthcare business administration. This
course requires the student to integrate and synthesize managerial skills with healthcare knowledge, resulting in a high quality final project that
demonstrates professional managerial proficiency.
C453 - Clinical Microbiology - Clinical Microbiology introduces general concepts, methods, and applications of microbiology from a health sciences
perspective. The course is designed to provide healthcare professionals with a basic understanding of how various diseases are transmitted and
controlled. Students will examine the structure and function of microorganisms, including the roles that they play in causing major diseases. The
course also explores immunological, pathological, and epidemiological factors associated with disease. To assist students in developing an applied,
patient-focused understanding of microbiology, this course is complimented by several lab experiments that allow students to: practice aseptic
techniques, grow bacteria and fungi, identify characteristics of bacteria and yeast based on biochemical and environmental tests, determine antibiotic
susceptibility, discover the microorganisms growing on objects and surfaces, and determine the Gram characteristic of bacteria. This course has no
prerequisites.
C455 - English Composition I - English Composition I introduces candidates to the types of writing and thinking that are valued in college and
beyond. Candidates will practice writing in several genres with emphasis placed on writing and revising academic arguments. Instruction and
exercises in grammar, mechanics, research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as
necessary. Composition I is a foundational course designed to help candidates prepare for success at the college level. There are no prerequisites for
English Composition I.
C456 - English Composition II - English Composition II introduces candidates to the types of research and writing that are valued in college and
beyond. Candidates will practice writing, with emphasis placed on research, writing, and revising an academic argument. Instruction and exercises in
grammar, mechanics, research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as necessary.
Composition II is a foundational course designed to help candidates prepare for success at the college level. Composition I is the prerequisite for
Composition II.
C458 - Health, Fitness, and Wellness - Health, Fitness, and Wellness focuses on the importance and foundations of good health and physical
fitness—particularly for children and adolescents—addressing health, nutrition, fitness, and substance use and abuse.
C464 - Introduction to Communication - This introductory communication course allows candidates to become familiar with the fundamental
communication theories and practices necessary to engage in healthy professional and personal relationships. Candidates will survey human
communication on multiple levels and critically apply the theoretical grounding of the course to interpersonal, intercultural, small group, and public
presentational contexts. The course also encourages candidates to consider the influence of language, perception, culture, and media on their daily
communicative interactions. In addition to theory, candidates will engage in the application of effective communication skills through systematically
preparing and delivering an oral presentation. By practicing these fundamental skills in human communication, candidates become more competent
communicators as they develop more flexible, useful, and discriminatory communicative practices in a variety of contexts. Note: There are references
within this video to Taskstream. If Taskstream is not part of your student experience, please disregard, and locate your task(s) within your course.
C465 - Care of the Developing Family - The Care of the Developing Family Clinical and Simulation course includes all aspects of clinical learning
related to care of the developing family nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assesses advancing clinical competencies through the use of
high-fidelity simulation and advanced clinical debriefing for clinical scenarios. Students engage in scenarios that represent patients with gestational
diabetes, a normal vaginal delivery, placenta previa, pre-eclampsia, and post-partum hemorrhage. Learner competency will be assessed through
performance in the clinical intensive for Care of the Developing Family. Topics include care of the family during the prenatal period; care of the family
during the intrapartum period; care of the postpartum family; and health promotion of the family.
C466 - Medication Dosage Calculations - In Medication Dosage Calculations, candidates learn about individualized drug dosing concepts including
different measurement systems, solid and liquid medications, calculating dosages based on body weight or body surface area, interpreting drug labels
and abbreviations, and common medication errors.
C467 - Pharmacology - Pharmacology covers concepts in pharmacology, including drug classification and effects, the role of the nurse in drug
therapy, preparation and administration of drugs, and ethical and legal issues surrounding medication administration. The Institute of Medicine reports
that cited medication errors are the most common medical errors, costing billions of dollars and harming up to 1.5 million people every year.
Medication errors are often the result of nurses failing to follow proper procedures. The pharmacology course covers: the nursing process in relation to
drug therapy; the role of pharmacological principles in nursing; the role of the nurse in pharmacy and lifespan considerations; cultural, ethical, and
legal considerations; education and substance abuse; and gene therapy and pharmacology. This course introduces the nursing student to these
concepts and continues to integrate pharmacology throughout the clinical courses within the program.
C468 - Information Management and the Application of Technology - Information Management and the Application of Technology helps the
candidate learn how to identify and implement the unique responsibilities of nurses related to the application of technology and the management of
patient information. This includes understanding the evolving role of nurse informaticists; demonstrating the skills needed to use electronic health
records; identifying nurse-sensitive outcomes that lead to quality improvement measures; supporting the contributions of nurses to patient care;
examining workflow changes related to the implementation of computerized management systems; and learning to analyze the implications of new
technology on security, practice, and research.
C469 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I introduces nursing fundamentals
that speak to the core of all nursing care by assessing the needs of patients with compassion and respect; advocating for patients and their families;
providing education and comfort; and integrating patient needs into a plan of care that embraces individuality, diversity, and belief. This course allows
students to learn about fundamental nursing skills within their didactic environment and practice in a learning lab environment.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 153
C470 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical Learning - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical
Learning includes all aspects of clinical learning related to the fundamentals of nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess task skill
knowledge including physical assessment, safe medication administration, and oxygenation; nutrition, metabolism, and elimination; skin integrity,
activity, and mobility; and cognition. This course provides an opportunity for students who are successful in lab assessments to progress to live patient
clinicals. During clinicals, students will be assessed for their mastery of basic levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of a novice nursing
student.
C471 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II topics include management of
the perioperative care continuum; patient-centered care of the adult; care of the adult with alterations in circulation; care of the adult with alterations in
cardiovascular function; care of the adult with alterations in oxygenation; care of the adult with alterations in neurosensory function; fundamental
patient self-determination and advocacy; and end-of-life care. This course incorporates virtual simulations into the didactic course to help students
prepare for their learning labs and clinical learning experience. Patient scenarios for the virtual simulations include: fluid and electrolyte imbalance;
blood transfusion reaction; severe reaction to an antibiotic; pulmonary embolism; and postoperative complications with a fracture.
C472 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II Clinical Learning - The clinical learning course for Caring Arts and Science Across
the Lifespan Part II includes all aspects of clinical learning related to medical surgical nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess task skill
knowledge progressing to high fidelity simulation scenarios to develop mastery of situated use of knowledge and synthesis of knowledge in clinical
scenarios that focus on perioperative care. The virtual simulations that students completed in didactic will prepare them for their learning lab scenarios.
Students who are successful in lab assessments will progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their mastery of basic levels of the key
behaviors for clinical practice of Medical Surgical nursing.
C473 - Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses - The Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses course builds on prior knowledge of medical surgical
nursing care and common conditions, focusing on diseases and conditions that affect the neuromuscular system, the musculoskeletal system, the
kidneys, the pancreas, and diseases such as cancer and impaired immunity, which affect every part of the body. Students will develop mastery of
competencies related to advanced medical surgical nursing practice. This course also utilizes virtual simulation scenarios to help students prepare for
their learning labs and their clinical intensives. Students work through the following patient scenarios: diabetes/hypoglycemia; postop abdominal
hysterectomy/opioid intoxication; acute severe asthma; acute myocardial infarction; and respiratory system disease.
C474 - Clinical Learning for Complex Illnesses in Adults - Clinical Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses includes all aspects of clinical learning
related to advanced medical surgical nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess advanced clinical competencies through the use of high-
fidelity simulation and advanced clinical debriefing for clinical scenarios. Students participate in skills related to advance medication administration,
central venous devices, and peripherally inserted central catheters. The virtual simulations that students completed in didactic will prepare them for
their learning lab scenarios. Students who are successful in simulation assessments will progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their
mastery of advanced levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of medical surgical nursing.
C475 - Care of the Older Adult - Care of the Older Adult adapts the concepts from prior coursework to the care of older adults. An understanding of
the effects that policy and legislation have on how healthcare systems treat aging patients sets a foundation for improving their care. Students will
apply health assessment skills and evidence-based standards in such a way to account for the specific needs of older adults. Emphasis is placed on
the importance of maintaining the dignity of older adults by focusing on cultural, religious, spiritual, and communication needs, and by collaborating on
care with older adults, families, and caregivers.
C476 - Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing - In Psych/Mental Health, students will discover the many faces of mental illness and the role that the
nursing profession plays in managing care of patients and families struggling with a mental illness. Caring for patients with mental illness requires
patience and true compassion, a commitment to patient advocacy, and an in-depth understanding of psychopharmacology. Students will work through
current issues in mental health; take a look at ethical and legal issues in mental health; review foundations of practice and nursing assessment; learn
about therapeutic interventions and crisis management; learn about various mental health disorders and the care of these patients.
C477 - Nursing Care of Children - Nursing Care of Children explores the many facets of the pediatric population. The course materials cover the
following topics: well-child care; growth and development; immunizations; community health; health trends in pediatrics; disease processes of the
cardio-pulmonary system, the neurological system, gastrointestinal system, genitourinary system, respiratory system, integumentary system,
endocrine system, musculoskeletal and neuromusculoskeletal system; safe administration of medications, pain management, and hospitalization of
the pediatric population. This course also utilizes the virtual simulations to prepare students for their learning lab and clinical experience. The
scenarios covered with the virtual simulations include: anaphylaxis; pneumonia leading to respiratory distress (asthma); dehydration; generalized
tonic-clonic seizures; and sickle cell anemia.
C478 - Critical Care Nursing Clinical Learning - Critical care environments are not limited to the intensive care unit but can occur in emergency
departments, in surgery, during transport, and sometimes during a disaster. The Critical Care Nursing course introduces students to the critical care
environment and includes such topics as moral distress, the role of the critical care nurse, legal and ethical issues, health disparity, sleep deprivation,
psychosocial needs of not only patients but also their families, and end-of-life care. This course then takes a more in-depth look at the various system
failures students might encounter in a critical care setting, including the pulmonary and cardiac systems, hemodynamics and neurology, the endocrine
and renal systems, the gastrointestinal system, shock, and hematology. At this point in the program, students are refining their critical thinking skills by
integrating their understanding of physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and the nursing process and applying this to various situations experienced by
patients and their families.
C480 - Networks - Networks for undergraduates focuses on the general concepts and applications of computer operating systems and network
topologies. The fundamental knowledge and skills gained in this course prepares students for the CompTIA Network+ certification exam. Network and
Security – Foundations is a pre-requisite for this course.
C482 - Software I - Software I builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for Java application development. You
will learn about and put into action class design, exception handling, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop software that
meets business requirements. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming and the Java language.
C483 - Principles of Management - Principles of Management provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of management and its
context within the business environment. Students of this course build on previously mastered competencies by taking a more in-depth look at
management as a discipline and how it differs from leadership while further exploring the importance of communication within business. This course
provides students with a business generalist overview in the areas of strategic decision-making and operational planning, managerial budgeting,
change management, human capital management, staff development, and conflict management.
C484 - Organizational Behavior and Leadership - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse
business environments. The course requires students to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management
strategies in a series of scenario-based problems.
C486 - Organizational Systems: Safety and Regulation - The Organizational Systems course presents the required sequence of learning activities
developed to assist students in achieving competency in the safety and regulatory requirements mandated by the Joint Commission and Occupational
Safety and Health Association (OSHA). Learning activities are presented in a sequential order and often build upon prior activities and skills; it is
therefore important to complete the course in the order presented.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 154
C487 - Psych/Mental Health Clinical - The clinical experience for psychiatric/mental health differs from other clinical intensives. Students are
required to have a total of 90 hours of clinical time and must document their hours on a time log. They will have a total of 72 hours scheduled.
Students will be assessed of their mastery of advancing levels of key behaviors in the psychiatric/mental health clinical.
C488 - Critical Care Nursing - Critical care environments are not limited to the intensive care unit, but can occur in emergency departments, surgery,
during transport, and sometimes during a disaster. The Critical Care Nursing course introduces the student to the critical care environment and
includes such topics as moral distress, the role of the critical care nurse, legal and ethical issues, health disparity, sleep deprivation, psychosocial
needs of not only the patient but their family, and end of life care. This course then takes a more in depth look at the various system failures students
might encounter in a critical care setting to include the pulmonary and cardiac systems; hemodynamics and neurology; endocrine and renal systems;
gastrointestinal system; shock; and hematology. At this point in the program the student is beginning to refine their critical thinking skills by integrating
their understanding of physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and the nursing process and applying this to various situations experience by the patient
and their family.
C489 - Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership - Nurses serve as clinicians, managers, and mentors to shape the future of healthcare and
affect patient care outcomes in positive ways. This course will help students be more confident and better prepared to assume leadership roles
regardless of their position in the healthcare delivery system. This advanced leadership course focuses on the concepts of patient safety; improvement
science; balancing cost, quality, and access through the triple aim; and leadership and patient/family-centered care. Students will develop mastery of
advanced competencies, particularly in patient safety in quality improvement science.
C490 - Professional Nursing Role Transition - This course is a three-part course: preparing for the NCLEX; leadership learning experience; and
professional portfolio. After graduating from a nursing program, the student must take and pass the NCLEX-RN®. This is a high-stakes licensing exam
and success on the first attempt is very important. In order to prepare for the possibility of taking the long exam, students will need to practice taking
longer exams; and build up stamina to sit and concentrate that long. In this course, students will create an intense study plan and pass complete an
NCLEX-RN predictor exam. Students will also complete a Leadership Learning Experience (LLE) is designed to help the student learn more about the
various roles of a healthcare team. The student will participate in a specified number of interdisciplinary team meetings during a clinical experience.
The student may observe the various roles, but participation in the meetings will help with growth and learning. Successful completion of a written
paper will satisfy this portion of the course. The professional portfolio will showcase student accomplishments, knowledge, and skills and will increase
marketability as a baccalaureate-prepared nurse, and focuses on the concepts strengths, and clinical reasoning abilities that define professional
nursing practice. A passing grade of the submitted portfolio will satisfy this portion of the course.
C491 - Nursing Clinical Practicum - Before graduating, nursing students need to experience clinical as an independent member of the nursing team
who manages a standard patient load. Working under the supervision of a preceptor, the student will have an opportunity to test clinical reasoning,
patient care management, delegation and organizational skills in caring for a group of patients to complete 180 hours of supervised clinical practice.
The student is working to transition from novice student nurse to novice clinical nurse.
C492 - Physical Assessment - The physical assessment course is designed to help students build a cognitive understanding of a physical
assessment as well as the skills used to conduct a physical assessment on patients across the lifespan. Students will work through activities that
enhance their learning and understanding of the physical assessment. These include learning about the importance of the health history, working
through the body systems through readings, case studies, and virtual simulations. Interviewing and advance history taking are an integral part of the
assessment process along with the skills necessary to complete a primary physical assessment. Students will master these assessment competencies
through the use of virtual simulation reality experiences. This course is taught in tandem with the Caring Arts and Sciences Across the Lifespan Part 1
course.
C494 - Advanced Standing for RN License - Advanced Standing for RN License
C498 - MS, Information Technology Management Capstone - MSITM Capstone course challenges students to demonstrate mastery of all the
MSITM program outcomes. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project.
C612 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful secondary mathematics teachers. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, Pre-
Calculus, Calculus I, and Calculus II. Linear Algebra, and Calculus III are recommended.
C613 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Middle School Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine
and integrate the mathematics content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful middle school mathematics teachers. A high level of
mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College
Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and Pre-Calculus.
C614 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student’s conceptual understanding of a broad range of biology
topics. High school biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. This course starts with macromolecules that make
up cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist. Connections are then made between
genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ systems and their role in maintaining
homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and the effect humans have on the environment.
C615 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include mechanics, electricity and magnetism, optics and waves, heat and thermodynamics, modern
physics, atomic and nuclear structure, the history and nature of science, science technology, and social perspectives.
C616 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle-level science teacher is expected to
know and understand. Topics include scientific methodologies, history of science, basic science principles, physical sciences, life sciences, earth and
space sciences, and the role of science and technology and their impact on society.
C617 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - Chemistry: Content Knowledge provides advanced instruction in the main areas of chemistry for which
secondary chemistry teachers are expected to demonstrate competency. Topics include matter and energy, thermochemistry, structure, bonding,
reactivity, biochemistry and organic chemistry, solutions, nature of science, technology and social perspectives, mathematics, and laboratory
procedures.
C618 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary earth/space science teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of earth and space sciences, tectonics and internal earth processes, earth
materials and surface processes, history of Earth and its life-forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphere, and astronomy.
C624 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application. Be sure to understand the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how
it is applied. By successfully completing this course, you will gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. You
will also begin to see the importance of this subject matter to health.
C625 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application and the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how it is applied. This
course will help students gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. Students will see the importance of this
subject matter to health.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 155
C626 - MED, Learning and Technology Capstone - MED, Learning and Technology Capstone takes the student through the steps of planning and
conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. Students will design, manage, and develop an instructional product for
which there is an identified need, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and reporting of results.
Prerequisite Courses: Research Foundations (C224), Research Questions and Literature Review (C225), Research Design and Analysis (C226), and
Research Proposals (C227) or permission of a faculty manager. Additionally, students wishing to add the Capstone with fewer than eight weeks
remaining in the term must receive permission of the faculty manager.
C635 - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone Written Project takes the student through the
steps of planning and conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. The result is expected to be a significant piece
of research, culminating in a written research report, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and
reporting of results. Prerequisite Courses: Research Foundations (C224), Research Questions and Literature Review (C225), Research Design and
Analysis (C226), and Research Proposals (C227) or permission of a faculty manager. Additionally, students wishing to add the Capstone with fewer
than eight weeks remaining in the term must receive permission of the faculty manager.
C636 - MED, Instructional Design Capstone - MED, Instructional Design Capstone Written Project is the culminating assessment where learners
should be able to integrate and synthesize competencies from across the degree program and thereby demonstrate the ability to participate in and
contribute value to their chosen professional field. Prerequisite Courses: Research Foundations (C224), Research Questions and Literature Review
(C225), Research Design and Analysis (C226), and Research Proposals (C227) or permission of a faculty manager. Additionally, students wishing to
add the Capstone with fewer than eight weeks remaining in the term must receive permission of the faculty manager.
C645 - Science Methods - Science Methods provides an introduction to science teaching methods for graduate students seeking initial licensure or
an additional endorsement in secondary biology, chemistry, geosciences, physics, or middle grades general science. Course content focuses on the
design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts,
and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to
evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe
laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. Students seeking initial licensure
should complete NHC1: Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation before this course. There are no prerequisites for students seeking an
endorsement in a new content area.
C646 - Trigonometry and Precalculus - Trigonometry and Precalculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex
numbers, systems of equations, vectors and matrices, sequence and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems.
Topics include degrees; radians and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming trigonometric
functions and their inverses; solving trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar approaches
to complex numbers; DeMoivre's Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations; systems of
inequalities; and arithmetic and geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
C647 - Trigonometry and Precalculus - Trigonometry and Precalculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex
numbers, systems of equations, vectors and matrices, and sequences and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life
problems. Topics include degrees; radians and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming
trigonometric functions and their inverses; solving trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar
approaches to complex numbers; DeMoivre's Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations;
systems of inequalities; and arithmetic and geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
C649 - Geology I: Physical - Geology I: Physical provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary science
education with an introduction to minerals and rocks, the physical features of the Earth, and the internal and surface processes that shape those
features. This course has no prerequisites.
C650 - Geology I: Physical - Geology I: Physical provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary science
education with an introduction to minerals and rocks, the physical features of the Earth, and the internal and surface processes that shape those
features. This course has no prerequisites.
C652 - Heredity and Genetics - Heredity and Genetics is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement
in secondary or middle grade science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the function of molecular genetics. Topics
include Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance and population genetics. This course has no prerequisites.
C653 - Heredity and Genetics - Heredity and Genetics is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or
students earning their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the
function of molecular genetics. Topics include Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance and population genetics. This course has no prerequisites.
C654 - Zoology - Zoology provides undergraduate students seeking licensure or endorsement in secondary science education with an introduction to
the field of zoology. Zoology includes the study of major animal phyla emphasizing characteristics, variations in anatomy, life cycles, adaptations, and
relationships among the animal kingdom. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C655 - Zoology - Zoology provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or their MA degree in secondary science education with
an introduction to the field of zoology. Zoology includes the study of major animal phyla emphasizing characteristics, variations in anatomy, life cycles,
adaptations, and relationships among the animal kingdom. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C656 - Calculus III - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and skills necessary
to apply calculus of multiple variables while using the appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include: infinite series and
convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating), power series, taylor polynomials, vectors, lines and planes in three dimensions,
dot and cross products, multivariable functions, limits, and continuity, partial derivatives, directional derivatives, gradients, tangent planes, normal
lines, and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
C657 - Calculus III - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and skills necessary
to apply calculus of multiple variables while using the appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include: infinite series and
convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating), power series,taylor polynomials, vectors, lines and planes in three dimensions,
dot and cross products, multivariable functions, limits, and continuity, partial derivatives, directional derivatives, gradients, tangent planes, normal
lines, and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
C659 - Conceptual Physics - Conceptual Physics provides a broad, conceptual overview of the main principles of physics, including mechanics,
thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and electricity and magnetism. Problem-solving activities and laboratory experiments provide
students with opportunities to apply these main principles, creating a strong foundation for future studies in physics. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
C670 - Concepts in Science - Concepts in Science for graduates provides already-licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
science education with an introduction to essential science themes present within and across all science disciplines, including chemistry, physics,
biology, and the geosciences. These themes include comprehending the magnitude of the physical and natural world, analyzing and converting
measurements, understanding the basic nature and behavior of matter and energy, examining atomic structure, identifying and naming basic types of
chemical bonds, and analyzing and interpreting scientific data. Concepts in Science provides a solid foundation for future, in-depth, scientific studies
and should be taken prior to any other science content course. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 156
C672 - General Chemistry I with Lab - General Chemistry I with Lab for graduates provides an introduction to the field of chemistry to already-
licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in secondary chemistry. This course provides students with opportunities to examine
the electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules,
balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of
laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science is a prerequisite for this course.
C673 - General Chemistry II with Lab - General Chemistry II with Lab for graduates continues the study of general chemistry for already-licensed
teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in secondary chemistry. Building on the topics covered in General Chemistry I, General
Chemistry II examines the behavior of gases and solutions, reaction rates and equilibrium, acids and bases, and oxidation-reduction reactions. Also,
this course provides an introduction to three subdisciplines of chemistry: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and nuclear chemistry. Laboratory
experiences reinforce the essential skills required for conducting successful scientific investigations. C672: General Chemistry I for graduates is a
prerequisite for this course.
C683 - Natural Science Lab - This course gives you an introduction to using the scientific method and engaging in scientific research to reach
conclusions about the natural world. You will design and carry out an experiment to investigate a hypothesis by gathering quantitative data.
C700 - Secure Network Design - Secure Network Design covers topics for designing and protecting computer networks. Course topics emphasize
secure physical and logical network architecture design for both wired and wireless networks. Secure Network Design provides students the
opportunity to recognize secure network characteristics, apply techniques to securely configure network devices, propose network segmentation
strategies, perform root cause analysis, and recommend mitigation approaches based on industry best practices. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
C701 - Ethical Hacking - Ethical Hacking helps students build the skills necessary to protect an organization's information system from unauthorized
access and system hacking. Topics include security threats, penetration testing, vulnerability analysis, risk mitigation, business-related issues, and
countermeasures. Students will learn how to expose system vulnerabilities, find solutions for eliminating and preventing them, and apply hacking skills
on different types of networks and platforms. This course prepares students for the following certification exam: EC-Council’s Certified Ethical Hacker
exam. This course has no prerequisites.
C702 - Forensics and Network Intrusion - Forensics and Network Intrusion builds proficiency in detecting hacking attacks and properly extracting
evidence to report the crime and conduct audits to prevent future attacks. Topics include computer forensics in today’s world; media and operating
system forensics; data and file forensics; audits and investigations; and device forensics. This course has no prerequisites.
C706 - Secure Software Design - Secure Software Design focuses on the variety of elements needed to address and implement secure software
acquisition and development throughout the software development life cycle (SDLC). It covers the end-to-end principles and addresses people,
technology (tools), and processes to design and develop consistently secure applications. Additionally, this course underscores the importance and
value of the defense in depth principle across the entire SDLC. Finally, this course introduces techniques to adapt common security activities to
modern software development practices, including Agile/Scrum and DevOps. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C715 - Organizational Behavior - Organizational Behavior explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse business environments. The
course requires students to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management strategies in a series of scenario-
based problems.
C716 - Business Communication - Business Communication is a survey course of communication skills needed in the business environment.
Course content includes writing messages, reports, and résumés and delivering oral presentations. The course emphasizes communication
processes, writing skills, message types, and presentation of data. The development of these skills is integrated with the use of technology.
C717 - Business Ethics - Business Ethics is designed to enable students to identify the ethical and socially responsible courses of action available
through the exploration of various scenarios in business. Students will also learn to develop appropriate ethics guidelines for a business. This course
has no prerequisites.
C720 - Operations and Supply Chain Management - Operations and Supply Chain Management provides a streamlined introduction to how
organizations efficiently produce goods and services, determine supply chain management strategies, and measure performance. Emphasis is placed
on integrative topics essential for managers in all disciplines, such as supply chain management, product development, and capacity planning. This
course will guide students in analyzing processes, managing quality for both services and products, and measuring performance while creating value
along the supply chain in a global environment. Topics include forecasting, product and service design, process design and location analysis, capacity
planning, management of quality and quality control, inventory management, scheduling, supply chain management, and performance measurement.
C721 - Change Management - Change Management provides an understanding of change and an overview of successfully managing change using
various methods and tools. Emphasizing change theories and various best practices, this course covers how to recognize and implement change
using an array of other effective strategies, including those related to innovation and leadership. Other topics include approaches to change,
diagnosing and planning for change, implementing change, and sustaining change.
C722 - Project Management - Project Management prepares students to manage projects from start to finish within any organizational structure. The
course presents a view into different project management methods and delves into topics such as project profiling and phases, constraints, building
the project team, scheduling, and risk. This course helps students grasp the full scope of future projects and apply the proper management
approaches to complete a project. This course features practice in each of the project phases as students learn to strategically apply project
management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their goals.
C723 - Quantitative Analysis For Business - Quantitative Analysis for Business explores various decision-making models, including expected value
models, linear programming models, and inventory models. This course helps student learn to analyze data by using a variety of analytic tools and
techniques to make better business decisions. In addition, it covers developing project schedules using the Critical Path Method. Other topics include
calculating and evaluating formulas, measures of uncertainty, crash costs, and visual representation of decision-making models using electronic
spreadsheets and graphs. This course has no prerequisites.
C724 - Information Systems Management - Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of information systems
applicable to business. The course explores the importance of viewing information technology (IT) as an organizational resource that must be
managed, so that it supports or enables organizational strategy.
C725 - Information Security and Assurance - Information Security and Assurance explores the many facets of the information security landscape.
Recognizing that there are no universal solutions to issues related to information security and assurance, this course covers the durable security
principles that help to drive sound decisions. Additionally, this course introduces well-accepted risk management principles that help to appropriately
secure information assets. Finally, the course illustrates how a comprehensive library of policies, standards, and procedures are used to secure assets
and provide the required levels of regulatory compliance. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C726 - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering prepares students to implement and manage
security engineering tasks and processes using secure design principles grounded in positive security engineering. It covers the fundamental concepts
of confidentiality and integrity security models along with applied cryptography for implementation of these models. Additionally, this course helps
students assess and mitigate vulnerabilities found in security designs, architectures, and solutions. Finally, this course introduces techniques to design
and implement physical security controls for data centers and other large implementations of IT. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 157
C727 - Cybersecurity Management I - Strategic - Cybersecurity Management I - Strategic focuses on the strategic and long-term alignment of an
organization's information security program to regulators and ensures that it is appropriate for the company culture and management organization.
This course introduces the Basel Committee's four lines of defense model to appropriately implement separation of duties and information security
roles and structures. Additionally, this course covers big-picture items (e.g., how risk management will be performed institutionally and how
compliance to information security requirements will be managed). Finally, this course helps students apply strategic decision making as companies
adapt to new technologies, processes, and people practices related to processing, managing, and protecting information resources. The Cybersecurity
Architecture and Engineering course is a prerequisite for this course.
C728 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in middle and high
school improve upon the literacy skills required to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Themes
include exploring how language structures, text features, vocabulary, and context influence reading comprehension across the curriculum. The course
highlights strategies and tools designed to help teachers assess the reading comprehension and writing proficiency of learners and provides strategies
to support students' reading and writing success in all curriculum areas. This course has no prerequisites.
C730 - Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions - Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions explores the comprehensive, student-
centered response to intervention (RTI) model used to identify and address the needs of learners in middle school and high school who struggle with
reading comprehension and/or information retention. Course content provides educators with effective strategies designed to scaffold instruction and
help learners develop increased skill in the following areas: reading, vocabulary, text structures and genres, and logical reasoning related to the
academic disciplines. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and
Assessment course OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in Special Education.
C732 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in grades K–6
develop the literacy skills necessary to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Course content
highlights strategies to help learners distinguish between the unique characteristics of informational texts while improving comprehension and writing
proficiency across the curriculum. Strategies to encourage inquiry and cultivate skills in critical thinking, collaboration, and creativity also are
addressed. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Introduction
to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary or Special Education.
C736 - Evolution - Students will learn why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances in
medicine, public health, and conservation. Course participants will gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution, including the
process of speciation, and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. They will also explore how new ideas,
discoveries, and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we know
what we know.
C737 - Evolution - This course addresses why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances
in medicine, public health, and conservation. This course helps participants gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution including
the process of speciation and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. This course also explore how new
ideas, discoveries, and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we
know what we know.
C738 - Space, Time and Motion - Throughout history, humans have grappled with questions about the origin, workings, and behavior of the universe.
This seminar begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers on to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton,
and Albert Einstein. Einstein's work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of motion, time, space, matter, and energy.
The course considers Einstein's special theory of relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his general theory of relativity and its
implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks at Einstein as a social and
political figure and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and web resources enable
learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars, black holes, the big bang,
and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C739 - Space, Time and Motion - This course begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers
on to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton, and Albert Einstein. Einstein’s work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of
motion, time, space, matter, and energy. The course considers Einstein’s special theory of relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his
general theory of relativity and its implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks
at Einstein as a social and political figure and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and
web resources enable learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars,
black holes, the Big Bang, and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C749 - Introduction to Data Science - This course introduces the data analysis process and common statistical techniques necessary for the
analysis of data. Students will ask questions that can be solved with a given data set, set up experiments, use statistics and data wrangling to test
hypotheses, find ways to speed up their data analysis code, make their data set easier to access, and communicate their findings.
C751 - Data Analysis with R - This course focuses on exploratory data analysis (EDA) utilizing R. EDA is an approach for summarizing and
visualizing the important characteristics of a data set. Exploratory data analysis focuses on exploring data to understand the data's underlying
structure and variables to develop intuition about the data set, to consider how that data set came into existence, and to decide how it can be
investigated with more formal statistical methods.
C753 - Machine Learning - This course presents the end-to-end process of investigating data through a machine learning lens. Topics covered
include techniques for extracting data, identifying useful features that best represent data, a survey of commonly-used machine learning algorithms,
and methods for evaluating the performance of machine learning algorithms.
C756 - Data Analytics - This course covers the most common tools, techniques, and procedures involved in data analytics. Students will review all
the disciplines involved with data analytics learned in previous courses and get a better understanding of how they all relate to one another.
C768 - Technical Communication - This course covers basic elements of technical communication, including professional written communication
proficiency; the ability to strategize approaches for differing audiences; and technical style, grammar, and syntax proficiency.
C769 - IT Capstone Written Project - The capstone project consists of a technical work proposal, the proposal’s implementation, and a post-
implementation report that describes the graduate’s experience in developing and implementing the capstone project. The capstone project should be
presented and approved by the course instructor in relation to the graduate’s technical emphasis.
C773 - User Interface Design - This course covers tools and techniques employed in user interface design, including web and mobile applications.
Concepts of clarity, usability, and detectability are included in this course, as well as other design elements such as color schemes, typography, and
layout. Techniques like wireframing, usability testing, and SEO optimization are also covered.
C777 - Web Development Applications - This course builds upon a student's manual coding skills by teaching how to develop web documents and
pages using the web development trifecta: Hypertext Markup Language version 5 (HTML5), Cascading Style Sheets version 3 (CSS3), and
JavaScript. Students will utilize the skills learned in this course to create web documents and pages that easily adapt to display on both traditional and
mobile devices. In addition, students will learn techniques for code validation and testing, form creation, inline form field validation, and mobile design
for browsers and apps, including Responsive Web Design (RWD).
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 158
C779 - Web Development Foundations - This course introduces students to web design and development by presenting them with HTML5 and
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), the foundational languages of the web, by reviewing media strategies and by using tools and techniques commonly
employed in web development.
C783 - Project Management - Project Management is a thorough exploration of the inputs, tools, techniques, and outputs across the five process
groups and 10 knowledge areas identified in the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) Guide. The essential concepts and practical
scenarios included enable students to build the competencies required to successfully complete the CAPM certification exam. There is no prerequisite
for this course.
C784 - Applied Healthcare Statistics - Applied Healthcare Probability and Statistics is designed to help develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic mathematics, introductory algebra, and statistics and probability. These concepts include basic arithmetic with fractions and signed
numbers; introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical data and probability are now
commonplace in the healthcare field. This course will help candidates make informed decisions about which studies and results are valid, which are
not, and how those results affect your decisions. This course will give candidates background in what constitutes sound research design and how to
appropriately model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, this course guides candidates in calculating simple probabilities based on events
which occur in the healthcare profession. This course will prepare candidates for studies at WGU, as well as in the healthcare profession.
C785 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. The four major
polymers include nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application. It will help you understand the underlying
biochemistry in order to grasp how it is applied. Through its successful completion, this course will teach you to gain an introductory understanding of
the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. Biochemistry will also help you begin to see the importance of this subject matter to health.
C787 - Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science - Nutritional ignorance or misunderstandings are at the root of the health problems that
most Americans face today. Nurses need to be armed with the most current information available about nutrition science, including how to understand
nutritional content of food; implications of exercise and activity on food consumption and weight management, and management of community or
population specific nutritional challenges. The Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science course should prepare nurses to provide support,
guidance, and teaching about incorporation of sound nutritional principles into daily life for health promotion. This course covers nutrition to support
wellness; healthy nutritional choices; nutrition and physical activity; nutrition through the lifecycle; safety and security of food; and nutrition and global
health environments.
C790 - Foundations in Nursing Informatics - This course addresses the integration of technology to improve and support nursing practice. It
provides nurses with a foundational understanding of nursing informatics theory, practice, and applications. Topics include the role of nursing in
informatics; use of computer technology for clinical documentation, communication, and workflows; problem identification; project implementation; and
best practices.
C792 - Data Modeling and Database Management Systems - This graduate course is designed to engage the student in planning, analyzing, and
designing a relational database management system (DBMS) for use by nurse administrators, clinicians, educators, and informaticists. This
experience will provide the knowledge needed to advocate for nursing informatics needs within the field of healthcare.
C795 - Cybersecurity Management II - Tactical - Cybersecurity Management II - Tactical provides students the opportunity to examine tactical
cybersecurity management, which is the practice of addressing near-term cybersecurity goals within an enterprise. The tactical management process
enables organizations to address unique cyber requirements throughout the organization. It deals with the people, processes, and technologies that
are in use, and it primarily centers on the current operations of the enterprise. A range of cybersecurity tactical management topics are introduced in
this course, including the tools, techniques, and concepts used to develop an effective cybersecurity program within organizations. The Cybersecurity
Management I - Strategic course is a prerequisite for this course.
C796 - Cybersecurity Graduate Capstone - The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance (MSCSIA) Capstone project allows
students to demonstrate their capability to establish a durable cybersecurity and information assurance program. The capstone project challenges
students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project that deals with a significant real-world cybersecurity problem.
C797 - Data Science and Analytics - This course addresses the interdisciplinary and emerging field of data science in healthcare. Candidates learn
to combine tools and techniques from statistics, computer science, data visualization, and the social sciences to solve problems using data. Topics
include data analysis; database management; inferential and descriptive statistics; statistical inference; and process improvement.
C798 - Informatics System Analysis and Design - In Informatics System Analysis and Design, a broad understanding of data systems is covered to
build upon the Foundations in Nursing Informatics course. The importance of effective interoperability, functionality, data access, and user satisfaction
are addressed. The student will be analyzing reports and integrating federal regulations, research principles, and principles of environmental health in
the construction of a real-world systems analysis and design project. This course will be directly applicable to healthcare settings as electronic records
management has become compulsory for healthcare providers. All of the information in this course will be directly tied to the delivery of quality patient
care and patient safety. Foundations in Nursing Informatics is recommended as a prerequisite.
C799 - Healthcare Ecosystems - Healthcare Ecosystems explores the history and state of healthcare organizations in an ever-changing
environment. This course covers how agencies influence healthcare delivery through legal, licensure, certification, and accreditation standards. The
course will also discuss how new technologies and trends keep healthcare delivery innovative and current.
C801 - Health Information Law and Regulations - Health Information Law and Regulations prepares students to manage health information in
compliance with legal guidelines and teaches how to respond to questions and challenges when legal issues occur. This course presents the types of
situations occurring in health information management that could result in ethical dilemmas and establishes a foundation for work based on legal and
ethical guidelines.
C802 - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management applies theories from business,
IT, management, medicine, and consumer-centered healthcare skills. Students will learn to evaluate and analyze health information systems for
implementation in health information management. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C803 - Data Analytics and Information Governance - Data Analytics and Information Governance explores the structure, methods, and approaches
for using health information in the healthcare industry. By focusing on quality data collection, analytics, and industry regulations, students will examine
tools that ensure quality data collection as well as to use data to improve quality of care. This course has no prerequisites.
C804 - Medical Terminology - Medical Terminology focuses on the basic components of medical terminology and how terminology is used when
discussing various body structures and systems. Proper use of medical terminology is critical for accurate and clear communication among medical
staff, health professionals, and patients. In addition to the systems of the body, this course will discuss immunity, infections, mental health, and cancer.
C805 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is an overview of the pathology and treatment of diseases in the human body and its systems. This
course will explain the processes in the body that result in the signs and symptoms of disease, as well as therapeutic procedures in managing or
curing the disease. The content draws on a knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand how diseases manifest themselves and how they
affect the body.
C806 - Introduction to Pharmacology - Introduction to Pharmacology provides information about drug development and approvals, pharmaceutical
classifications, metabolism, and the effect of drugs on body systems. The course will introduce advancements in pharmaceutical technology,
regulatory requirements within electronic health record systems, and the financial implications of pharmaceutical coding and billing. This course has no
prerequisites.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 159
C807 - Healthcare Compliance - Healthcare Compliance examines the role of the coding professional within healthcare information management.
The course covers compliance plans, issues that arise with noncompliance, and management of internal and external audits.
C808 - Classification Systems - Classification Systems provides a comprehensive approach to learning about medical coding classification, coding
audits, and quality standards. Candidates will be exposed to electronic health record systems and leadership principles as they relate to management
of ICD and CPT codes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C810 - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management introduces students to the concepts and
terminology used in health data and health information management. This course teaches students how to apply data management and governance
principles in the healthcare environment. The student will learn about electronic health records (EHR), legal considerations, information governance,
data management, health information management (HIM), and secondary data sources. In addition to the e-text and numerous additional articles and
video resources, the student will engage with case studies and knowledge checks to assist with learning. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C811 - Healthcare Financial Resource Management - Healthcare Financial Resource Management examines financial practices within healthcare
industries to promote effective management at department and organization levels. Focusing on financial processes associated with facility operations
in the healthcare field, this course will analyze the impact of strategic financial planning and regulatory control processes. This course has no
prerequisites.
C812 - Healthcare Reimbursement - Healthcare Reimbursement explores financial practices within the healthcare industry as they relate to
reimbursement policies. This course identifies how reimbursement systems impact the revenue cycle and a health information manager's role. This
course has no prerequisites.
C813 - Healthcare Statistics and Research - Healthcare Statistics and Research explores the use of statistical data to support process improvement
through health information research. Health information management (HIM) professionals use information systems to gather, analyze, and present
data in response to administrative and clinical needs. This course has no prerequisites.
C815 - Quality and Performance Management and Methods - Quality and Performance Management and Methods examines quality initiatives
within healthcare. Quality issues cover human resource management, employee performance, and patient safety. This course focuses on quality
improvement initiatives and performance improvement with the health information management perspective.
C816 - Healthcare System Applications - Healthcare System Applications introduces students to information systems. This course includes
important topics related to management of information systems (MIS), such as system development and business continuity. The course also provides
an overview of management tools and issue tracking systems. This course has no prerequisites.
C820 - Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare - The Professional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare course is
designed to help students prepare for success in the online environment at Western Governors University and beyond. Student success starts with the
social support and self-reflective awareness that will prepare students to weather the challenges of academic programs. In this course students will
participate in group activities and complete several individual assignments. The group activities are aimed at finding support and gaining insight from
other students. The assignments are intended to give the student an opportunity to reflect about where they are and where they would like to be. The
activities in each group meeting are designed to give students several tools they can use to achieve success. This course is designed as a five-part
intensive learning experience. Students will attend five group meetings during the term. At each meeting students will engage in activities that help
them understand their own educational journey and find support and inspiration in the journey of others.
C825 - Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science - Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science is an introduction to the nursing process as well as
fundamental concepts of nursing practice. This course includes a skills lab requiring physical presence (two on-site days) and completion of a nursing
skills assessment (one on-site day). Successful completion of this course in the pre-nursing term (BSPRN) is a requirement for consideration for
matriculation into the remaining terms (BSRN).
C826 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing will assist students in becoming
familiar with foundational theories and models of health promotion applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will develop an
understanding of how policies and resources influence the health of populations. Focus is concentrated on the importance of a community assessment
to improve or resolve a community health issue. Students will be introduced to the relationships between cultures and communities and the steps
necessary to create community collaboration with the goal to improve or resolve community health issues in a variety of settings. Students will gain a
greater understanding of health systems in the United States, global health issues, quality-of-life issues, cultural influences, community collaboration,
and emergency preparedness.
C832 - Chemistry with Lab - Chemistry with Lab for undergraduates provides students seeking initial teacher licensure in middle grades science or
secondary physics, biological science, or earth science with an introduction to the field of chemistry, the branch of science that studies the
composition, structure, properties, and behavior of matter. Designed for those not majoring in chemistry education, this course highlights how the
topics covered can be applied within various branches of science. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure
of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical
reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and
maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science for undergraduates is a prerequisite for this course.
C833 - Chemistry with Lab - Chemistry with Lab for graduates provides already licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
middle grades science or secondary physics, biological science, or earth science with an introduction to the field of chemistry. Designed for those not
majoring in chemistry education, this course highlights how the topics covered can be applied within various branches of science. This course provides
students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas,
determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the
study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science for graduates is a prerequisite for this
course.
C836 - Fundamentals of Information Security - This course lays the foundation for understanding terminology, principles, processes and best
practices of information security at local and global levels. It further provides an overview of basic security vulnerabilities and countermeasures for
protecting information assets through planning and administrative controls within an organization.
C838 - Managing Cloud Security - Managing Cloud Security will prepare students to design solutions for cloud-based platforms and operations that
maintain data availability while protecting the confidentiality and integrity of information. Many of today’s companies and organizations have
outsourced data management, availability, and operational processes through cloud computing. Topics include security controls, disaster recovery
plans, and continuity management plans that address physical, logical, and human factors. It is recommended that the following courses be completed
before attempting this course: Networks and IT Applications.
C839 - Introduction to Cryptography - Introduction to Cryptography provides students with knowledge of cryptographic algorithms, protocols, and
their uses in the protection of information in various states. This course has no prerequisites.
C840 - Digital Forensics in Cybersecurity - Digital forensics, the science of investigating cybercrimes, seeks evidence that reveals who, what, when,
where, and how threats compromise information. This course examines the relationships between incident categories, evidence handling, and incident
management. Students identify consequences associated with cyber threats and security laws using a variety of tools to recognize and recover from
unauthorized, malicious activities.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 160
C841 - Legal Issues in Information Security - Security information professionals have the role and responsibility for knowing and applying ethical
and legal principles and processes that define specific needs and demands to assure data integrity within an organization. This course addresses the
laws, regulations, authorities, and directives that inform the development of operational policies, best practices, and training to assure legal
compliance and to minimize internal and external threats. Students analyze legal constraints and liability concerns that threaten information security
within an organization and develop disaster recovery plans to assure business continuity.
C842 - Cyber Defense and Countermeasures - Traditional defenses—such as firewalls, security protocols, and encryption—sometimes fail to stop
attackers determined to access and compromise data. This course provides the fundamental skills to handle and respond to computer security
incidents in an information system. The course addresses various underlying principles and techniques for detecting and responding to current and
emerging computer security threats. Students learn how to leverage intelligence and threat detection techniques; analyze and interpret data; identify
and address vulnerabilities; suggest preventative measures; effectively respond to and recover from incidents; and handle various types of incidents,
risk assessment methodologies, and various laws and policies related to incident handling. This course prepares students for the CompTIA
Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) certification exam.
The following courses are prerequisites: C480 Networks and C178 Network and Security - Applications.
C843 - Managing Information Security - This course expands on fundamentals of information security by providing an in-depth analysis of the
relationship between an information security program and broader business goals and objectives. Students develop knowledge and experience in the
development and management of an information security program essential to ongoing education, career progression, and value delivery to
enterprises. Students apply best practices to develop an information security governance framework, analyze mitigation in the context of compliance
requirements, align security programs with security strategies and best practices, and recommend procedures for managing security strategies that
minimize risk to an organization.
C844 - Emerging Technologies in Cybersecurity - The continual evolution of technology means that cybersecurity professionals must be able to
analyze and evaluate new technologies in information security such as wireless, mobile, and internet technologies. Students review the adoption
process that prepares an organization for the risks and challenges of implementing new technologies. This course focuses on comparison of evolving
technologies to address the security requirements of an organization. Students learn underlying principles critical to the operation of secure networks
and adoption of new technologies.
C845 - Information Systems Security - IT security professionals must be prepared for the operational demands and responsibilities of security
practitioners including authentication, security testing, intrusion detection and prevention, incident response and recovery, attacks and
countermeasures, cryptography, and malicious code countermeasures. This course provides a comprehensive, up-to-date global body of knowledge
that ensures students have the right information, security knowledge, and skills to be successful in IT operational roles to mitigate security concerns
and guard against the impact of malicious activity. Students demonstrate how to manage and restrict access control systems; administer policies,
procedures, and guidelines that are ethical and compliant with laws and regulations; implement risk management and incident handling processes;
execute cryptographic systems to protect data; manage network security; and analyze common attack vectors and countermeasures to assure
information integrity and confidentiality in various systems. This course prepares students for the Systems Security Certified Practitioner (ISC2 SSCP)
certification exam.
C846 - Business of IT - Applications - Business of IT—Applications examines Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL®) terminology,
structure, policies, and concepts. Focusing on the management of information technology (IT) infrastructure, development, and operations, students
will explore the core principles of ITIL practices for service management to prepare them for careers as IT professionals, business managers, and
business process owners. This course has no prerequisites. This course prepares students for the Axelos ITIL v4 certification exam.
C849 - Cloud Foundations - This course introduces students to the real-world issues and practical solutions of cloud computing. The course will
teach the business value of cloud computing, cloud types, steps to a successful adoption of the cloud, impact and changes on IT service
management, as well as risks and consequences. The course contains interactives, reading materials, video, and simulations to help students develop
a broad understanding of cloud computing. This course prepares students for the following certification exam: AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner (CLF-
C01). There are no prerequisites for this course.
C850 - Emerging Technologies - The Emerging Technologies course examines emerging technologies, identifies the benefits and drawbacks of
technology adoption, and provides students with a process to evaluate technologies. The course will examine three technologies that may have an
impact on Information Technology services in the coming years.
C851 - Linux Foundations - Linux Foundations is an introduction to Linux as an operating system as well as an introduction to open-source concepts
and the basics of the Linux command line. Expert content, a Linux virtual machine, and step-by-step labs give you hands-on access to practice Linux
command line concepts. Linux is widely used in different industries for all kinds of functions, including web servers, firewalls, and graphic design, and it
provides robust functionality and a stable, secure environment that is not often found in any other client operating system. There are no prerequisites
for this course.
C853 - Teacher Performance Assessment in English - The Teacher Performance Assessment course is a culmination of the wide variety of skills
learned during a student’s time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, students will
showcase a collection of their content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
C854 - Nursing Informatics Field Experience - Nursing Informatics Field Experience requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences
while engaging in authentic activities relevant to the role of an informatics nurse. To help students develop competency in this area, this course gives
students opportunities to apply methods and solutions to support clinical decisions. They will be prepared to improve health outcomes by analyzing an
existing health information system to determine the need for a system optimization that will improve an organization’s ability to measure and report
Triple Aim objectives. All MSN Core and Specialty courses, with the exclusion of the Capstone course, are prerequisites to this course and must be
completed before taking this course.
C855 - Nursing Informatics Capstone - Nursing Informatics Capstone requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences (CPE) and finalize
their system optimization proposal paper, which addresses the Institute of Health’s Triple Aim initiative. During this course, students will plan the final
phase of their system development life cycle (SDLC), which consists of proposing the processes, methods, and tasks for monitoring, maintaining,
supporting, and evaluating their system optimization. The knowledge and skills that students acquire during the CPE in this course will prepare them to
complete their system optimization proposal paper. This is a culminating course that provides students an opportunity to demonstrate the
competencies acquired during this program. All MSN Core and Specialty courses, including the Field Experience course, are prerequisites to this
course and must be completed before taking this course.
C856 - User Experience Design - User Experience Design explores multiple tools and techniques used in user experience design. Students are
presented with an in-depth view of activities involved in the design of user experience and have the opportunity to create several deliverables,
including persona profiles, information architectures, and prototypes of different levels of fidelity. In addition, the course also covers usability testing
and the evaluation of quantitative and qualitative data derived from these and other experiments.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 161
C857 - Software Quality Assurance - Software Quality Assurance applies a QA focus to every phase of the software development life cycle. This
course investigates best practices for quality analysis, quality planning, and testing strategies as they pertain to the everyday practice of software
development. Students will come to understand how their work fits into the bigger picture: how QA, testing, and code-writing practices interact within
specific process models; the potential impact of new code on existing code or on other applications; the importance of usability and the influence users
have on the ultimate success of an application. Students will explore test plans, test cases, unit tests, integration tests, regression tests, usability tests,
and test and review tools.
C859 - Introduction to Programming in Python - Introduction to Programming in Python provides the fundamentals of the Python language and its
features to control program flow and to manipulate data sets. This course teaches how to develop Python scripts that extract and manipulate data from
unstructured data sources. Python libraries including acquisition and configuration are also covered. Scripting and Programming Foundations and
Web Development Foundations are prerequisites to this course.
C867 - Scripting and Programming - Applications - Scripting and Programming - Applications for undergraduates explores the various aspects of
the C++ programming language by examining its syntax, the development environment, and tools and techniques to solve some real-world problems.
C868 - Software Development Capstone - The capstone assessment challenges students to demonstrate mastery of all the BSITSW program
outcomes. Students will develop a software application to solve a problem of their choice constrained only by the technology requirements provided in
the assessment DRF.
C870 - Human Anatomy and Physiology - This course examines the structures and functions of the human body and covers anatomical
terminology, cells and tissues, and organ systems. Students will study the healthy state of the organ systems of the human body, including the
digestive, skeletal, sensory, respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine, and renal systems.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
C871 - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment contains a
comprehensive, original, research-based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting
of seven components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision-making, 6) analysis of
student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C873 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment course is a culmination of the wide
variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will
showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C874 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance
Assessment contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct
evidence of the candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect
on the learning process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional
unit consisting of seven components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision
making, 6) analysis of student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C875 - Human Anatomy and Physiology - This course examines the structures and functions of the human body and covers anatomical
terminology, cells and tissues, and organ systems. Students will study the healthy state of the organ systems of the human body, including the
digestive, skeletal, sensory, respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine, and renal systems.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
C876 - Conceptual Physics - Conceptual Physics provides a broad, conceptual overview of the main principles of physics, including mechanics,
thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and electricity and magnetism. Problem-solving activities and laboratory experiments provide
students with opportunities to apply these main principles, creating a strong foundation for future studies in physics. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
C877 - Mathematical Modeling and Applications - Mathematical Modeling and Applications applies mathematics, such as differential equations,
discrete structures, and statistics to formulate models and solve real-world problems. This course emphasizes improving students’ critical thinking to
help them understand the process and application of mathematical modeling. Probability and Statistics II and Calculus II are prerequisites.
C878 - Mathematical Modeling and Applications - Mathematical Modeling and Applications applies mathematics, such as differential equations,
discrete structures, and statistics to formulate models and solve real-world problems. This course emphasizes improving students’ critical thinking to
help them understand the process and application of mathematical modeling. Probability and Statistics II and Calculus II are prerequisites.
C879 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common student misconceptions and ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of algebra. Secondary teachers should have an understanding of the following: algebra as an extension of number, operation, and
quantity; various ideas of equivalence pertaining to algebraic structures; patterns of change as covariation between quantities; connections between
representations (tables, graphs, equations, geometric models, context); and the historical development of content and perspectives from diverse
cultures. In particular, this course focuses on deeper understanding of rational numbers, ratios and proportions, meaning and use of variables,
functions (e.g., exponential, logarithmic, polynomials, rational, quadratic), and inverses. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C880 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of algebra. Secondary teachers should have an understanding of the following: algebra as an extension of number, operation, and
quantity; various ideas of equivalence as it pertains to algebraic structures; patterns of change as covariation between quantities; connections
between representations (tables, graphs, equations, geometric models, context); and the historical development of content and perspectives from
diverse cultures. In particular, the course focuses on deeper understanding of rational numbers, ratios and proportions, meaning and use of variables,
functions (e.g., exponential, logarithmic, polynomials, rational, quadratic), and inverses. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C881 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of geometry. Secondary teachers in this course will develop a deep understanding of constructions and transformations,
congruence and similarity, analytic geometry, solid geometry, conics, trigonometry, and the historical development of content. Calculus I and College
Geometry are prerequisites for this course.Calculus I and College Geometry are prerequisites for this course.
C882 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common student misconceptions and ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and
assess the learning of geometry. Students in this course will develop a deep understanding of constructions and transformations, congruence and
similarity, analytic geometry, solid geometry, conics, trigonometry, and the historical development of content. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this
course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 162
C883 - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores
important conceptual underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional
practices to support and assess the learning of statistics and probability. Secondary teachers should have a deep understanding of summarizing and
representing data, study design and sampling, probability, testing claims and drawing conclusions, and the historical development of content and
perspectives from diverse cultures. Calculus I and Probability and Statistics I and II are prerequisites for this course.
C884 - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores
important conceptual underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional
practices to support and assess the learning of statistics and probability. Secondary teachers should have a deep understanding of summarizing and
representing data, study design and sampling, probability, testing claims and drawing conclusions, and the historical development of content and
perspectives from diverse cultures. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C885 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus examines rigorous reconsideration and proofs involving calculus. Topics include real-number
systems, sequences, limits, continuity, differentiation, and integration. This course emphasizes using critical thinking to analyze the connections
between definitions and properties. Calculus III and Linear Algebra are prerequisites.
C886 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus examines rigorous reconsideration and proofs involving calculus. Topics include real-number
systems, sequences, limits, continuity, differentiation, and integration. This course emphasizes students’ ability to apply critical thinking to concepts to
analyze the connections between definitions and properties. Calculus III and Linear Algebra are prerequisites.
C887 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance
Assessment contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct
evidence of the candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect
on the learning process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional
unit consisting of seven components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making,
6) analysis of student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C888 - Molecular and Cellular Biology - Molecular and Cellular Biology provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in
secondary science education with an introduction to the area of molecular and cellular biology. This course examines the cell as an organism,
emphasizing the molecular basis of cell structure and functions of biological macromolecules, subcellular organelles, intracellular transport, cell
division, and biological reactions. Introduction to Biology is a prerequisite for this course.
C889 - Molecular and Cellular Biology - Molecular and Cellular Biology provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or
to earn their MA degree in secondary science education with an introduction to the area of molecular and cellular biology. This course examines the
cell as an organism emphasizing molecular basis of cell structure and functions of biological macromolecules, subcellular organelles, intracellular
transport, cell division, and biological reactions. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C890 - Ecology and Environmental Science - Ecology and Environmental Science is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking
initial licensure or endorsement in secondary or middle grade science education. The course explores the relationships between organisms and their
environment, including population ecology, communities, adaptations, distributions, interactions, and the environmental factors controlling these
relationships. This course has no prerequisites.
C891 - Ecology and Environmental Science - Ecology and Environmental Science is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial
licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. The course explores the relationships
between organisms and their environment, including population ecology, communities, adaptations, distributions, interactions, and the environmental
factors controlling these relationships. This course has no prerequisites.
C892 - Geology II: Earth Systems - Geology II: Earth Systems provides undergraduate students seeking licensure or endorsement in secondary
science education with an examination of the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and the dynamic equilibrium of these systems over
geologic time. This course also examines the history of Earth and its life-forms, with an emphasis in meteorology. Geology I: Physical is a prerequisite
for this course.
C893 - Geology II: Earth Systems - Geology II: Earth Systems provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA
degree in secondary science education with an examination of the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere and the dynamic equilibrium
of these systems over geologic time. This course also examines the history of Earth and its lifeforms, with an emphasis in meteorology. A prerequisite
for this course is Geology I: Physical.
C894 - Astronomy - Astronomy provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary or middle grade science
education with essential knowledge of astronomy. It explores Western history and basic physics of astronomy, phases of the moon and seasons,
composition and properties of solar system bodies, stellar evolution and remnants, properties and scale of objects and distances within the universe,
and introductory cosmology. General Physics is a prerequisite for this course.
C895 - Astronomy - Astronomy provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or
middle grade science education with essential knowledge of astronomy. This course explores Western history and basic physics of astronomy; phases
of the moon and seasons; composition and properties of solar system bodies; stellar evolution and remnants; properties and scale of objects and
distances within the universe; and introductory cosmology. A prerequisite for this course is General Physics.
C897 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful secondary mathematics teachers. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, Pre-
Calculus, Calculus I, and Calculus II. Linear Algebra, and Calculus III are recommended.
C898 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary earth science teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of earth and space sciences, tectonics and internal earth processes, earth
materials and surface processes, history of the Earth and its life-forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphere, and astronomy.
C900 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student's conceptual understanding of a broad range of biology
topics. High school biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. For example, when studying hormones created by
endocrine glands traveling through the circulatory system to maintain homeostasis, a student is connecting many biology topics. This course starts
with macromolecules that make up cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist.
Connections are then made between genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ
systems and their role in maintaining homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and how humans affect the environment.
C901 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include mechanics, electricity and magnetism, optics and waves, heat and thermodynamics, modern
physics, atomic and nuclear structure, the history and nature of science, science technology, and social perspectives.
C902 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle school level science teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include scientific methodologies, history of science, basic science principles, physical sciences, life
sciences, earth and space sciences, the role of science and technology, and their impact on society.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 163
C903 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Middle School Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine
and integrate the mathematics content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful middle school mathematics teachers. A high level of
mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College
Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and Pre-Calculus.
C904 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Science - The Teacher Performance Assessment in Science course is culmination of the wide variety
of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase
a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
C907 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. This course explores the overarching theories
of life from biological research as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the
environment. Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the
environment to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C908 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and Earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical and everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
C909 - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions provides candidates with an in-depth look
at best practices for developing reading and writing skills. Course content examines the stages of literacy development, balanced literacy approaches,
differentiation, technology integration, literacy assessment, and the comprehensive response to intervention (RTI) model used to identify and address
the needs of learners who struggle with reading comprehension. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to
Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in
Elementary or Special Education.
C910 - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions - Elementary Reading Methods and Interventions provides students seeking initial teacher
licensure in elementary education with an in-depth look at best practices for developing the reading and writing skills of all students. Course content
examines the stages of literacy development, the balanced literacy approach, differentiation, technology integration, literacy-assessment, and the
comprehensive Response to Intervention (RTI) model used to identify and address the needs of learners who struggle with reading comprehension.
This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Instructional Planning
and Presentation in Elementary Education.
C912 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C914 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment course is a culmination of the wide
variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will
showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
C915 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - Chemistry: Content Knowledge provides advanced instruction in the main areas of chemistry for which
secondary chemistry teachers are expected to demonstrate competency. Topics include matter and energy; thermochemistry; structure; bonding;
reactivity; biochemistry and organic chemistry; solutions; the nature of science, technology, and social perspectives; mathematics, and laboratory
procedures.
C916 - Scripting and Automation - Scripting and Automation is the foundation for automating tasks in operating systems. Students will learn how to
create PowerShell scripts that take tedious and repetitious tasks and turn them into programs that will save time. Students will learn PowerShell, an
automation and configuration management tool based on a command-line shell and .NET Framework.
C918 - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments examines the
multidimensional roles of a contemporary academic nurse educator. This course explores the roles and responsibilities of the nurse educator as a
teacher, leader, change agent, and curriculum innovator. Students will also examine the importance of personal and professional development by
developing strategies that promote academic integrity, cultural sensitivity, social justice, and ethical/legal values in diverse environments. The course
emphasizes the responsibility of nurse educators to utilize communication, collaboration, and leadership in mitigating challenges in academic nursing
education.
C919 - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning explores how the
nurse educator will incorporate authentic experiences into the creation of course plans that facilitate scholarly inquiry, collaboration, and knowledge
acquisition in varied educational environments. Emphasis is placed on innovative, transformational, and experiential teaching and learning strategies
to facilitate student development of professional, context-based nursing principles, knowledge, skills, and behavior. Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators
in Diverse Environments is a prerequisite to this course.
C920 - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing Education - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in
Nursing Education analyzes the concepts of creating curriculum based on national nursing accreditation standards and instructional design best
practices. Nurse educator students will create course content that supports learning in diverse, real-world environments where nurse educators
facilitate learning. Instructional design strategies for delivering course content will reflect the mission of academic institution programs, contemporary
trends in nursing education, and the needs of key stakeholders in nursing education and practice. Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered
Learning is a prerequisite to this course.
C921 - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student Learning - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student
Learning addresses the academic nurse educator's role in the design, development, implementation, and evaluation of student achievement outcomes
in nursing education programs. This course requires students to integrate best practices from nursing theory and theories of learning to assess student
learning in diverse educational settings. Topics include validity, reliability, and practicality of assessments; interpreting item difficulty and discrimination
test results; and analyzing student achievement and learning outcomes data. This course has no prerequisites.
C922 - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing Education - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing
Education analyzes the emerging trends, technologies, and challenges that academic nurse educators encounter when facilitating learning in diverse
healthcare settings. Students will focus on the necessity of interprofessional collaboration and the barriers and facilitators to overcoming the
challenges associated with teaching and learning in nursing. Topics include the impact of emerging technology, challenges in nursing practice, and the
role of the academic nurse educator as a scholar and a nursing education policy advocate. This course has no prerequisites.
C923 - Cloud Applications - Cloud Applications teaches students to implement and maintain cloud technologies and enables them to jump into a
rapidly growing market. As more businesses shift their IT operations to cloud platforms, skills in cloud computing and virtualization have become
frequently required qualifications for IT professionals. This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CV0-003 CompTIA Cloud+.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
C924 - Cloud Deployment and Operations - Cloud Deployment and Operations provides students with the technical skills in deployment,
management, and operations of cloud services. This course allows students to examine stability and scalability, backup and recovery processes, and
deployment best practices. Provisioning of cloud resources, monitoring of cloud resources, and managing connectivity are also examined.
Competency in this course is demonstrated by successfully completing the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate
certification exam. The following courses are prerequisites: Cloud Applications (C923).
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 164
C925 - Earth: Inside and Out - Earth: Inside and Out explores the ways in which our dynamic planet evolved and the processes and systems that
continue to shape it. Though the geologic record is incredibly ancient, it has only been studied intensely since the end of the nineteenth century. Since
then, research in fields such as geologic time, plate tectonics, climate change, exploration of the deep seafloor, and the inner earth have vastly
increased our understanding of geological processes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C926 - Earth: Inside and Out - Earth: Inside and Out explores the ways in which our dynamic planet evolved, and the processes and systems that
continue to shape it. Though the geologic record is incredibly ancient, it has only been studied intensely since the end of the 19th century. Since then,
research in fields such as geologic time, plate tectonics, climate change, exploration of the deep-sea floor, and the inner earth have vastly increased
our understanding of geological processes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C927 - Managing Technology Operations and Innovation - Managing Technical Operations and Innovations explores the importance of innovation
in the processes of operations management and business competitiveness. From the formulation of tactical operations plans from strategic objectives,
IT executives need to create partnerships to drive innovation within an organization. This course provides students with the practical knowledge and
understanding of operations management concepts, business models, methods, tools, applications and best practices used by successful
organizations to improve their operations. This course has no prerequisites.
C928 - Financial Management for IT Professionals - Financial Management for IT Professionals develops learners’ skills in financial management,
budgeting, and procurement. This course teaches how to leverage financial know-how to improve workplace decision-making. This course also
provides learners with the knowledge and skills necessary to spend money on the right projects and right equipment, while aligning operating budgets
with strategic initiatives. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C929 - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy examines the practice of sourcing
and developing global IT projects from a management perspective. In today’s organizations, leaders look for efficient and effective ways to deliver
goods and services. This course will allow students to explore the strategic, operational, tactical, and security-related impacts on the organization of
sourcing and supporting a global IT project. Students will cultivate a deep understanding of the documents, skills, and stakeholders needed for any
given project and develop the ability to leverage these elements to achieve success. This course will also explore the ethical, cultural, and regulatory
considerations surrounding sourcing and managing IT projects in a global space. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C930 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C931 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C932 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document at least 75 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will
be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a
completed resume.
C933 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C934 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education provides
students the opportunity to observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence
necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their
performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a
cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C935 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C936 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering
the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on
the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C937 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom
for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or
WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C938 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom
for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or
WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C939 - Data Visualization - Data Visualization covers the application of design principles, human perception, color theory, and effective storytelling in
the context of data visualization. It addresses presenting data to others and advancing technology with visualization tools, enabling data scientists to
share their findings and support organizational decision-making processes. Additionally, this course focuses on how to visually encode and present
data to an audience.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 165
C940 - Science Methods—Secondary Biology - Science Methods—Secondary Biology provides an introduction to teaching methods specific to
science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary biology. Course content focuses on the design and teaching
of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core
ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance,
and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is Instructional Planning and
Presentation.
C941 - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry provides an introduction to teaching methods specific
to science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary chemistry. Course content focuses on the design and
teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and
disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to
evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe
laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is
Instructional Planning and Presentation.
C942 - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science provides an introduction to teaching methods
specific to science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary earth science. Course content focuses on the
design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts,
and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to
evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe
laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is
Instructional Planning and Presentation.
C943 - Science Methods—Secondary Physics - Science Methods—Secondary Physics provides an introduction to teaching methods specific to
science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary physics. Course content focuses on the design and teaching
of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core
ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance,
and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A prerequisite for this course is Instructional Planning and
Presentation.
C945 - Preclinical Experiences in English - Preclinical Experiences in English provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a wide
range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will reflect on
and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance assessments. Prior to entering the classroom for the
observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU
required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
C946 - Nursing Education Field Experience - The Nursing Education Field Experience provides the academic nurse educator student an
opportunity to work collaboratively with academic mentors and interprofessional stakeholders to analyze the need-gap for a curriculum change,
innovation, or improvement. Based on the identified need-gap, the graduate student will design and develop a course that reflects evidence-based
instructional design and assessment principles and practices. This course prepares students for the role of an Academic Nurse Educator, as an agent
for change and quality improvement in nursing education.
C947 - Nursing Education Capstone - The Nursing Education Capstone course provides the Academic Nurse Educator student an opportunity to
apply previous course work towards the completion of an evidence-based curriculum proposal project. During this course students will build on
previous work during their Nursing Education Field Experience course by planning the implementation and evaluation phases of their proposed
curriculum change, innovation or improvement. The capstone proposal project represents a synthesis of competencies across the Masters Science of
Nursing—Nursing Education degree program, which prepares them to lead, manage, and transform nursing education in diverse and complex
academic settings. All MSN Core and Specialty courses, including the Field Experience course, are prerequisites to this course and must be
completed before taking this course.
C948 - Technical Communication - Technical Communication examines communication types and strategies that information technology executives
will use to communicate effectively within an organization. As leaders, IT executives frequently contribute to business goals by designing and
communicating specialized information in a variety of media to customers, clients, and other departments. In this course, students learn to
communicate accurately, effectively, and ethically to a variety of audiences. Students choose, design, and deliver the communication product and
assess the effectiveness to improve future communication. This course has no prerequisites.
C949 - Data Structures and Algorithms I - Data Structures and Algorithms I covers the fundamentals of dynamic data structures, such as bags, lists,
stacks, queues, trees, hash tables, and their associated algorithms. With Python software as the basis, the course discusses object-oriented design
and abstract data types as a design paradigm. The course emphasizes problem solving and techniques for designing efficient, maintainable software
applications. Students will implement simple applications using the techniques learned.
C950 - Data Structures and Algorithms II - Data Structures and Algorithms II explores the analysis and implementation of high-performance data
structures and supporting algorithms, including graphs, hashing, self-adjusting data structures, set representations, and dynamic programming. The
course also introduces students to NP-complete problems. The course discusses how to use Python techniques to implement software solutions for
problems of memory management and data compression. This course has two prerequisites: Data Structures and Algorithms I and Discrete Math II.
C951 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence explores the foundational principles and practices of artificial
intelligence (AI), machine learning, and robotics. The course prepares students to analyze relationships, build agents, and create models relevant to AI
problems. The prerequisites for this course are Introduction to Probability and Statistics as well as Data Structures and Algorithms II.
C952 - Computer Architecture - Computer Architecture introduces students to concepts and characteristics of organization and architecture applied
to modern computer systems including performance, processor, memory, input/output, and multiprocessors to optimize system design, performance,
and efficiency.
C954 - Information Technology Management - IT Management introduces the key topics and skills needed to lead next-generation technology
organizations. This course explores how common applications and innovation drive value and business needs. Ethical and regulatory compliance
issues are discussed, including current practices for risk management, disaster recovery, and cybersecurity. Students will also analyze the key
leadership skills and traits necessary to lead responsive, competitive, and innovative organizations. This course has no prerequisites.
C955 - Applied Probability and Statistics - Applied Probability and Statistics is designed to help students develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic statistics including: introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical
data and probability are often used in everyday life, science, business, information technology, and educational settings to make informed decisions
about the validity of studies and the effect of data on decisions. This course discusses what constitutes sound research design and how to
appropriately model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, the content covers simple probability calculations, based on events that occur in
the business and IT industries. No prerequisites are required for this course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 166
C957 - Applied Algebra - Applied Algebra is designed to help you develop competence in working with functions, the algebra of functions, and using
some applied properties of functions. You will start learning about how we can apply different kinds of functions to relevant, real-life examples. From
there, the algebra of several families of functions will be explored, including linear, polynomial, exponential, and logistic functions. You will also learn
about relevant, applicable mathematical properties of each family of functions, including rate of change, concavity, maximizing/minimizing, and
asymptotes. These properties will be used to solve problems related to your major and make sense of everyday living problems. Students should
complete Applied Probability and Statistics or its equivalent prior to engaging in Applied Algebra.
C958 - Calculus I - This course guides candidates to apply theoretical concepts of calculus to real-world situations, demonstrating a developing
mathematical mindset. This course focuses on limits, derivatives, integrals, and differential equations; it also prepares students for Discrete
Mathematics. Prerequisites may include an entrance exam that assesses pre-calculus skills, or readiness; alternatively, completion of pre-calculus
within the past 3 – 5 years.
C959 - Discrete Mathematics I - Discrete Mathematics I helps candidates develop competence in the use of abstract, discrete structures fundamental
to computer science. In particular, this course will introduce candidates to logic and proofs; Boolean algebra and functions; set theory; finite and infinite
sequences and series; and relations, graphs, and trees. The course emphasizes applications in computer science. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this
course.
C960 - Discrete Mathematics II - Discrete Mathematics II addresses abstract, discrete, computational methods used in computer science. In
particular, this class introduces searching and sorting algorithms; big-O estimates; number theory and cryptography; recursion and induction; counting
and advanced counting techniques; discrete probability; and modeling computation. This course emphasizes applications in computer science.
Discrete Mathematics I is a prerequisite for this course.
C961 - Ethics in Technology - Ethics in Technology examines the ethical considerations of technology in each of four categories: privacy, accuracy,
property, and access. The course presents a range of technologies and issues that challenge technologists in the field of information ethics. Students
are introduced to a decision-making process as informed by ethical frameworks that outline key ethical considerations within the technologies
presented. Students will study specific cases to help inform their professional responsibilities in how to navigate the important controversies in topics
such as surveillance, social media, hacking, data manipulation, plagiarism and piracy, artificial intelligence, responsible innovation, and the digital
divide. This course has no prerequisites.
C962 - Current and Emerging Technology - Current and Emerging Technologies explores organizational leadership trends, practices, processes,
and technology in contemporary technology-intensive organizations. IT executives need to stay informed of technological trends to determine their
relevance and implementation within an organization. This course requires students to read and evaluate academic literature pertaining to emerging IT
topics. This course has no prerequisites.
C963 - American Politics and the US Constitution - American Politics and the U.S. Constitution examines the evolution of representative
government in the United States and the changing interpretations of the civil rights and civil liberties protected by the Constitution. This course will give
candidates an understanding of the powers of the branches of the federal government, the continual tensions inherent in a federal system, the shifting
relationship between state and federal governments, and the interactions between elected officials and the ever-changing electorate. This course will
focus on such topics as the role of a free press in a democracy, the impact of changing demographics on American politics, and the debates over and
expansion of civil rights. Upon completion of the course, candidates should be able to explain the basic functions of the federal government, describe
the forces that shape American policy and politics, and be better prepared to participate in America’s civic institutions. This course has no prerequisite.
C964 - Computer Science Capstone - The Computer Science Capstone course allows the student to demonstrate their application of the academic
and professional abilities developed during the BSCS program. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program
domains into one project.
C965 - Teaching in the Middle School - Teaching in the Middle School examines the guiding principles and best teaching practices for educating
middle school students. The course explores the history of the middle school, the philosophy, theory, and rationale behind middle school organization;
and the differences between elementary, middle, and secondary schools. The course also examines the unique needs of middle school students and
teaching methods used to meet the needs of these learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C966 - Teaching in the Middle School - Teaching in Middle School examines the guiding principles and best teaching practices for educating middle
school students. The course explores the history of middle school; the philosophy, theory, and rationale behind middle school organization; and the
differences between elementary, middle, and secondary schools. The course also examines the unique needs of middle school students and teaching
methods used to meet the needs of these learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C968 - Software I – C# - Software I - C# builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for C# application
development. You will learn about and put into action: class design, exception handling, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop
software that meets business requirements. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming. Scripting and
Programming: Foundations and Scripting and Programming: Applications are prerequisites for this course.
C969 - Software II – Advanced C# - Software II - Advanced C# refines object-oriented programming expertise and builds database and file server
application development skills. You will learn about and put into action lambda expressions, collections, and input/output to develop software with C#
that meets business requirements. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the C# language. The prerequisite
for this course is Software I - C#.
C970 - Children’s Literature - Children's Literature is an introduction to and exploration of children's literature. Students will consider and analyze
children's literature as a lens through which to view the world. Students will experience multiple genres, historical perspectives, cultural
representations, and current applications in the field of children's literature. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning and
Presentation in Elementary or Special Education.
C971 - Mobile Application Development Using C# - Mobile Application Development Using C# introduces students to programming for mobile
devices. Building on students’ previous knowledge of programming in C#, this course investigates Xamarin.Forms and how it can be used to build a
mobile application. This course explores a broad range of topics, including mobile user interface design and development; building applications that
adapt to different mobile devices and platforms; managing data using a local database; and consuming REST-based web services. There are several
prerequisites for this course: Software I and II, and UI Design.
C972 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use dynamic technology to explore geometry, to use
axiomatic reasoning to prove statements about geometry, and to apply geometric models to solve real-life problems. Topics include axiomatic
systems, analytic proofs, coordinate geometry, plane and solid Euclidean geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, constructions, transformations,
deductive reasoning, and dynamic technology. College Algebra as well as Trigonometry and Precalculus are prerequisites.
C974 - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science provides an introduction to
teaching methods specific to science for undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in Middle School Science. Course content
focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices,
crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work
within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and
certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. A
prerequisite for this course is Instructional Planning and Presentation.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 167
C975 - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science focuses on teaching methods
specific to science for graduate students seeking an endorsement in middle school science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of
standards-based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core
ideas) and the appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance,
and plan appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C976 - Science Methods—Secondary Biology - Science Methods—Secondary Biology focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary biology. This course focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using
the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration
of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science
instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science
classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C977 - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary chemistry. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons
using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate
integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate
science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for
science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C978 - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science focuses on teaching methods specific to
science for graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary earth science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-
based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the
appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan
appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C979 - Science Methods—Secondary Physics - Science Methods—Secondary Physics focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary physics. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons
using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate
integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate
science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for
science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C980 - Innovative Solutions in Health Leadership - Innovative Solutions in Health Leadership provides an opportunity to explore healthcare
innovations through comparison research, application of disruptive leadership concepts, and advanced technology applications. Students will apply
strategic innovation concepts to improve critical patient dissatisfiers in a healthcare setting. This course has no prerequisites.
C981 - Collaborative Leadership - Collaborative Leadership provides an opportunity to apply collaborative leadership skills to better serve diverse
communities. Students will develop a process innovation with community leaders in a diverse population emphasizing a cultural competence. This
course has no prerequisites.
C982 - Healthcare Models and Systems - Healthcare Models and Systems provides an opportunity to analyze the evolution of healthcare models
and systems. Students will apply leadership strategies to manage organizational changes and community affiliations. This course has no
prerequisites.
C983 - Quality Improvement in Healthcare - Quality Improvement in Healthcare provides an opportunity to apply quality improvement principles and
strategies in a high-volume Level 1 trauma center. Students will apply disruptive leadership strategies to implement quality-improvement procedures in
a fast-paced healthcare environment. This course has no prerequisites.
C984 - Healthcare Financial Management - Healthcare Financial Management provides an opportunity to apply strategic change management
principles through the application of fiscal management and data analysis in a healthcare environment. This course will examine strategies to increase
value, sustainability, and productivity in a patient-centric environment. This course has no prerequisites.
C985 - Analytical Methods of Health Leaders - Analytical Methods of Health Leaders provides an opportunity to explore the use of predictive
analysis and forecasting techniques to develop evidence-based decision making. Candidates will apply quality research and analytical analysis to
inform decisions in a health management environment. This course has no prerequisites.
C986 - Enterprise Risk Management - Enterprise Risk Management provides an opportunity to examine risk exposure and response and risk
mitigation within an integrated care delivery model. Students will apply practices to identify risks and develop sustainable corrective action plans. This
course has no prerequisites.
C987 - Healthcare Information Technology - Healthcare Information Technology provides an opportunity to examine the use of technology in data
analysis and applications to improve outcomes in a patient-centered care environment. Students will apply strategic analysis to improve technology
function and interoperability within a community healthcare cooperative. This course has no prerequisites.
C988 - Population Healthcare Coordination - Population Healthcare Coordination provides an opportunity to examine population healthcare
strategies and community collaboration to impact at-risk demographic groups. Students will apply strategic change management and data analysis to
develop health initiatives for a large-scale population. This course has no prerequisites.
C989 - Challenges in Community Healthcare - Challenges in Community Healthcare provides an opportunity to explore organizational leadership
and problem-solving methods to collaborate with community leaders in a high-stakes healthcare environment. Students will apply collaborative
leadership skills and evidence-based practices as they develop community relationships to resolve critical issues in community health management.
This course has no prerequisites.
C990 - Integrated Health Leadership - Integrated Health Leadership provides an opportunity to examine integrated healthcare delivery systems and
person-centered care models for innovative solutions to critical challenges. The student will apply principles of collaborative leadership, disruptive
change, and catalyst evaluation to develop a holistic integrated healthcare system. This course has no prerequisites.
C991 - Health Leadership Capstone - The capstone is a student-designed project intended to illustrate the student’s ability to effect change in the
industry and demonstrate competence in all five program outcomes: transformational leader, value innovator, tactical manager, analyst, and integrated
systems expert. Students are required to collaborate with leaders in the healthcare industry to identify opportunities for improvement in healthcare,
propose a solution, and perform a business analysis to evaluate its feasibility. In addition, the capstone encourages work in the healthcare industry
that will be showcased in the student’s collection of work and help solidify professional relationships in the industry. This course has no prerequisites.
C992 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use dynamic technology to explore geometry, to use
axiomatic reasoning to prove statements about geometry, and to apply geometric models to solve real-life problems. Topics include axiomatic
systems, analytic proofs, coordinate geometry, plane and solid Euclidean geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, constructions, transformations,
deductive reasoning, and dynamic technology. College Algebra as well as Trigonometry and Precalculus are prerequisites.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 168
CQC2 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in relation to the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills
necessary to apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include
antiderivatives; indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the fundamental theorem of calculus; definite integrals; acceleration, velocity,
position, and initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration; improper
integration; area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations; direction
fields; growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
CUA1 - Culture - Focuses on the nature and role of culture and the importance of cultural groups and cultural identity.
D001 - Behavioral Support Strategies for K-12 Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Behavioral Support Strategies for K–12
Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to work effectively with students exhibiting behavior in the classroom that is
below age and cultural norms. This course provides an overview of behavior disorders and their causes, as well as appropriate research-based
intervention strategies, including positive behavior intervention and supports, multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS), applied behavior analysis,
replacement behavior and reward strategies, culturally responsive practices, and data collection and assessment methods. After completing this
course candidates emerge prepared to strategize and recommend adjustments to the learning environment that support positive behavior and student
success in the classroom and beyond. This course also examines behavioral assessment and analysis, including the creation of functional behavior
assessment (FBA) and the creation and monitoring of behavioral improvement plans (BIP) in an authentic learning environment. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of Fundamentals of Diverse Learners or Fundamentals of Diversity Inclusion, and Exceptional
Learners, Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education, and Managing Engaging Learning Environments or Classroom
Management, Engagement, and Motivation.
D002 - Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education - Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education
prepares candidates to practice within ethical and legal guidelines in day-to-day teaching, stakeholder interactions, and other complex situations. This
course provides an overview of the professional ethics and standards from the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC), which guide candidates to act
in a professionally conscientious manner. Candidates will explore the legal foundations and case laws related to special education to gain
understanding of how legislation influences teaching and learning. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Fundamentals of
Diverse Learners OR Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners.
D003 - Assessment in Special Education - Assessment in Special Education prepares candidates to use multiple methods of assessment and data
sources in making educational decisions about the student and the learning environment. This course is designed to help provide an understanding of
how assessment data is used during screening in multitiered systems of support (MTSS), the eligibility process, the evaluation process, progress
monitoring, and data-based instructional decision making. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Professional, Ethical, and
Legal Practices for Special Education and Assessing Impact on Student Learning OR Educational Assessment.
D004 - Collaborating with Partners for Student Success - Collaborating with Partners for Student Success prepares candidates to apply team
processes and communication strategies to collaborate in a culturally responsive manner with families, paraeducators, and other professionals (within
the school, other educational settings, and the community) to plan programs and access services for students with exceptionalities and their families.
The course introduces ways to enhance parental involvement and family engagement while teaching families and students advocacy throughout the
Individualized Education Program (IEP) and transition planning processes. This course also focuses on the components of the IEP and how the
practice of effective communication and collaboration skills is key to the program's development and implementation. Candidates will engage in three
hours of preclinical experiences that includes a simulated collaborative experience in which skills learned can be applied. This course is designed to
be taken after successful completion of Professional, Ethical, and Legal Practices for Special Education OR Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and
Exceptional Learners, and Assessment in Special Education.
D005 - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Considerations for Instructional Planning
for Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities introduces candidates to a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the
learning of students with exceptionalities. The course focuses specifically on strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions;
making instructional decisions based on progress-monitoring data; collaborating with general education teachers and paraeducators; teaching to
mastery; promoting generalization of learning; and teaching students with exceptionalities how to use self-assessment, problem solving, and other
cognitive strategies to organize critical content and meet their needs. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the
Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment course OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation AND Instructional Planning
and Presentation in Special Education.
D006 - Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Elementary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionali - Instructional Strategies and
Technologies for Elementary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to use evidence-based instructional practices
appropriate for elementary students receiving special education services. The course includes cognitive and metacognitive strategies that elementary
students can use to acquire new content knowledge and generalize skills across learning environments. It also provides opportunities for candidates to
incorporate intensive instructional strategies and practice making accommodations to elementary math and English language arts lesson plans based
on learner characteristics, performance data, and individualized education program (IEP) goals. In addition to discussing how to make appropriate
accommodations, the course teaches candidates how to assess student learning through progress monitoring and apply intensive interventions when
warranted. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild to
Moderate Exceptionalities.
D007 - Instructional Strategies and Technologies for Secondary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalit - Instructional Strategies and
Technologies for Secondary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to use evidence-based instructional practices
appropriate for use with secondary students receiving special education services. Strategies taught in this course focus on intensive instruction and
making accommodations to secondary lesson plans in order to develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills to enhance acquisition of age-
appropriate secondary content across academic disciplines. This course also promotes the achievement of Individualized Education Program (IEP)
and transition goals for independent living and career preparation through demonstration of strategies that increase students' self-awareness, self-
regulation, self-management, self-control, and self-esteem. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Considerations for
Instructional Planning for Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities.
D009 - Preclinical Experiences in Special Education - Pre-Clinical Experiences in Special Education provides candidates the opportunity to
observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an
effective teacher. Candidates will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance
assessments. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, candidates will be required to include a cleared background check, passing scores
on the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
D010 - Disciplinary Literacy - Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help candidates to develop the literacy skills necessary
to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Course content highlights strategies to help candidates
distinguish between the unique characteristics of informational texts while improving comprehension and writing proficiency across the curriculum.
Strategies to encourage inquiry and cultivate skills in critical thinking, collaboration, and creativity also are addressed. This course is designed to be
taken after successful completion of the Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment course OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and
Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in Special Education.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 169
D012 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs
1 and 2 involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance
data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D013 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special
Education, Obs 3 and Midterm involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D014 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs
4 and 5 involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance
data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D015 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education,
Obs 6 and Final involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive
performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D016 - Leadership Foundations and Ethics - Leadership Foundations and Ethics presents candidates with a variety of leadership theories and
strategies used by PK–12 educational leaders to develop, sustain, and evaluate a coherent system of academic and social supports that meet the full
range of students' needs. Foundational knowledge addresses the importance of developing mission, vision, and core values in collaboration with
faculty, staff, and the school community to advocate for student success. The course also covers communication strategies, interpersonal skills, and
using data to build community, influence school culture, and manage change for continuous improvement. In addition, candidates are introduced to the
significance of following professional ethical codes and the importance of modeling and advocating ethical behavior with all stakeholders.
D017 - School Law - School Law prepares candidates to understand the appropriate application of laws, rights, policies, and regulations to promote
student success. The course emphasizes the importance of understanding the history of and relationship between federal and state laws, legal
decisions, local education policies, and practices at the local school level to ensure compliance. The course further focuses on understanding the legal
rights and protections provided for all students, including those with disabilities, as well as school staff. It also addresses curriculum and instruction
that help stakeholders understand the possible effects these rights may have on administrative decisions. Candidates are also provided the
opportunity to demonstrate their capability to evaluate legal consequences of administrative decisions.
D018 - Leading Inclusive Schools - Leading Inclusive Schools covers a variety of topics that directly affect students who have been assessed and
determined to need additional support or services to ensure their academic success and well-being. The course prepares candidates to understand
and comply with applicable laws, rights, policies, and regulations as appropriate to address matters of equity, fairness, and student marginalization
based on culture and language, disability, or giftedness. These include types of special education classifications and their significance, working with
English learners (ELs), working with gifted and talented students, and using Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) frameworks to ensure optimum
learning environments for diverse learners. This course will guide candidates in building a strong repertoire of skills and knowledge related to
exceptional students. It will help them ensure that each student has equitable access to effective teachers; learning opportunities; academic, social,
and behavioral support; and other resources necessary for success. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the School
Law course.
D019 - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices focuses on the development of data literacy
skills educators need to improve the learning and development opportunities of K–12 students. Candidates will practice identifying educational
problems and data types, generating data, analyzing data, making inferences and drawing conclusions, and creating action plans within their
educational settings. Candidates will also learn best practices for data literacy, including continuous improvement planning, approaches to
professional learning communities, and instructional decision-making processes. This course has no prerequisites.
D020 - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning focuses on fostering cultural
competence among professional educators by increasing knowledge of diverse learner populations, implementing culturally responsive pedagogy, and
ensuring social justice and equity in the educational setting. Candidates also will participate in learning experiences designed to ensure they can lead
efforts to meet the social and emotional learning needs of all learners, contributing to a school environment that builds learners' personal agency and
academic success. Advocacy strategies are learned in this course, ensuring candidates possess the tools to positively impact school environments
both locally and globally. This course has no prerequisites and candidates are strongly encouraged to take this early in their program.
D021 - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction prepares candidates to evaluate and
implement curricular programs and instructional methods observed at the school level. Candidates focus on the knowledge and skills needed to
develop, align, and implement cohesive systems of curriculum, instruction, and assessment. Importance is placed on responding to student needs,
embodying high expectations for student learning, aligning with academic standards within and across grade levels, and promoting students' academic
success and social and emotional well-being. This course also covers the selection and use of appropriate technologies to monitor student progress
and improve instruction support for assessment, data collection, management, and analysis. Candidates are prepared to build a professional culture of
trust and collaboration to ensure they are able to work with school personnel in creating curricular programs and instructional methods that are
engaging and challenging and relevant to student needs, experiences, and interests. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion
of D017: School Law.
D022 - People and Talent in Educational Leadership - People and Talent in Educational Leadership prepares candidates to understand and
implement practices used to recruit, hire, and prepare school personnel to provide students with an optimal learning environment. Various school
professional development practices, such as professional learning communities, collaborative learning communities, beginning teacher induction, and
mentor programs, will be covered. Additionally the course covers methods to evaluate school personnel appropriately based on data-driven decisions;
providing realistic and actionable feedback to school personnel to continuously drive improvement; engaging all school personnel in the use and
evaluation of competing school-wide initiatives; creating and sustaining a professional culture of engagement and commitment by developing
workplace conditions that promote employee development, well-being, and professional growth; and continuously supporting school personnel to
improve their instructional practices through ongoing professional development. The candidate will also reflect on leadership standards in order to
develop a personal professional growth plan. A prerequisite for this course is D017: School Law.
D023 - School Financial Leadership - School Financial Leadership focuses on financial policies, practices, and issues connected to PK–12 school
operations. The course describes various sources of school funding, the impact these sources can have on managing school budgets, and the
challenges connected to finances that are often encountered by school leaders to ensure equitable financial support for all students. Candidates learn
how to analyze different types of school budgets and understand the principal's role in the budgetary process to ensure alignment to the school's
mission, vision, and values. This course also identifies and explains various types of commonly used accounting regulations, rules, and professional
ethical principles used to create, maintain, and evaluate school budgets to ensure the equitable and ethical use of financial resources. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of D017: School Law.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 170
D024 - Professional Presence and Influence - Professional Presence and Influence is a masters-level course designed to guide students towards
an enhanced state of presence, where therapeutic relationships are built between nurse and patient. Students will learn techniques for self-care
practices that result in enhanced mental and physical wellbeing and that ensure ethically-generated patient care. Presence is an intrapersonal and
interpersonal quality that allows the nurse to relate to others and to be aware of the world around them. The characteristics of presence, which include
holism, intimacy, sensitivity and adaptability, create a heightened sense of awareness that fosters therapeutic relationships between the nurse and
patient. Developing a mindful, authentic presence is central to health and spiritual practices in several cultures and a major element of leadership.
Students will intentionally develop a focused mindfulness practice that will influence patient outcomes and lead to conditions that create joy in the
workplace.
D025 - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional Practice - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional
Practice explores essential characteristics of the advanced professional nurse in the role of leader, educator, practitioner, or informatics specialist. In
this course, students will apply evidence-based strategies to facilitate interprofessional collaboration on teams. Students will explore the role of nurses
in advocating for change at the bedside, as well as leading teams to advocate for health policy reform. Students will gather and analyze data to
identify patients and populations at risk and recommend policy change to improve health outcomes in the community.
D026 - Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care - Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care incorporates
current standards of quality and safety within the context of value-based care. In a value-based healthcare system, the benefits are derived from
measuring health outcomes against the cost of delivering the outcomes. These benefits are then extended to patients, providers, payers, suppliers,
and society as a whole. This course introduces new healthcare delivery models, which stress a team-oriented approach to patient care and sharing of
patient data so that care is coordinated, and outcomes can be measured easily. Emphasis is placed on performance and quality improvement
methods that underlie value-based nursing care. The nurse in advanced practice today must exemplify the standards of quality and safety and be
prepared to lead the delivery of value-based patient-centered care.
D027 - Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations - Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations provides advanced practice nurses
foundational knowledge in the many pathologies encountered in practice today. Advancing from the cellular to the body system level, this course
examines the pathologies of common conditions seen in healthcare today. Consideration is also given to the human affective response to alterations
in health. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D028 - Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations - Advanced Health Assessment of Patients and Populations builds on prior
physical health assessment knowledge and skills acquired during undergraduate studies by focusing on the advanced assessment of biopsychosocial
and sociocultural contexts in patients and populations across the life span. This course emphasizes the use of a comprehensive health promotion,
disease prevention, and health restoration model to address health concerns in patients and communities. Students will acquire advanced assessment
knowledge and skills for clinical interviewing, focused history taking, critical diagnostic reasoning, and clinical decision-making using a problem-
focused framework that integrates authentic experiences with practical knowledge of health patterns in patients and communities.
D029 - Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care - Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care integrates nursing science with multiple information
and analytical sciences to identify, define, manage, and communicate data, information, knowledge, and wisdom in nursing practice. Students will
acquire knowledge and skills to apply informatics concepts, communications, and data that are critical to facilitating interprofessional data-driven
decision-making. It is designed to build competence in the use of patient- and population-based applications that inform and support the
transformation of nursing care delivery toward a future of value-based quality nursing care that improves health outcomes. This course aligns
theoretical concepts with practical applications of informatics and is consistent with the functional areas and responsibilities of informatics nurses as
defined by American Nurses Association Scope and Standards for nursing informatics.
D030 - Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems - Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems prepares
graduate nurses to be thoughtful strategists and informed decision makers who serve as strong leaders in high performing healthcare systems.
Students develop competencies for managing diverse teams in complex systems, monitoring and measuring organizational performance, allocating
financial and human resources, and leading change towards a transformed healthcare system. Additionally, students acquire the knowledge and skills
to become full partners with other healthcare professionals by demonstrating nurse contributions toward high-quality care to patients and populations,
while working collaboratively with interprofessional teams.
D031 - Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice - Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice introduces
students to the dynamic union of healthcare innovation and evidence. Core competencies and behaviors required to be a nurse innovator are
discussed. Strategies for measuring innovation at various system levels are presented, as well as techniques for synthesizing and disseminating
evidence to advance innovation in healthcare. The skills needed to appraise the quality of diverse sources of evidence are presented within the
framework of evidence-based practice. This course focuses on identifying new and emerging sources of evidence that can inform, translate, and scale
the complexity of leading innovation in healthcare organizations. Students will experience building communities of practice for collaboratively
developing innovative practices and policies designed to improve the health of populations and enhance the patient experience of care.
D033 - Healthcare Information Systems Management - Healthcare Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of
information systems in healthcare. This course explores how information technology (IT) is an organizational resource that must be managed so that it
supports or enables healthcare organizational strategy. This course will discuss how decision support and communication are securely facilitated in
the healthcare marketplace. This course also explores current and continuously evolving technologies, strategic thinking, and issues at the
intersection of health information management and technology.
D034 - Systems Management and School Operations - Systems management and school operations instruct candidates on the operational aspects
of school leadership that are essential to developing, monitoring, and evaluating school management, school systems, and services that address and
support the needs of students and school personnel. Topics presented in this course include systems thinking; development, implementation, and
evaluation of data-based strategic planning; and school improvement processes. Candidates will evaluate the use of appropriate operational
technology and the development of communications systems that provide actionable information to internal and external stakeholders for use in
classroom and school improvement and community engagement. Each of these topics emphasizes the importance of efficiently and effectively
managing school resources to build, maintain, and evaluate a cohesive system of academic and organizational supports, services, extracurricular
activities, and accommodations to meet the full range of needs for each student. Prerequisites for this course: Leadership Foundations and Ethics and
School Law.
D035 - Educational Inquiry - Educational Inquiry focuses on practical problem solving. This course teaches candidates to use scholarly literature to
inform their own practice. It also teaches candidates to engage in their own action research processes, which empowers educators to recognize
opportunities for improvement and to systematically implement and evaluate changes. This course prepares candidates to conduct research for the
capstone. Prerequisites for this course: Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 171
D036 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional Practices - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional
Practices provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the first of
a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at an
approved practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas directly or indirectly
affecting students. Collaboration within the school and local community is a focal point for this course. The course also includes the completion of
assigned administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating
administrator of the candidate's approved practicum site. Prior to enrolling in this practicum course, the candidate must complete a minimum of 18
CUs.
D037 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and Operations - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction
and Operations provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the
second of a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at
an approved practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas affecting school
operations and school personnel. The course also includes the completion of assigned administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the
candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating administrator of the candidate's approved practicum site. Prior to enrolling in
this practicum course, the candidate must complete a minimum of 18 CUs.
D038 - Educational Leadership Capstone - Educational Leadership Capstone serves as the culminating experience of this degree program, uniting
content area knowledge with the execution of a problem-based learning project. Under the guidance of program faculty, candidates will apply their
data literacy and research skills authentically and to topics appropriate to the candidate's degree program and future career goals. Projects will include
action research or program evaluation and the qualitative or quantitative research methods necessitated by the project's purpose. Prerequisites
include Data Literacy and Educational Inquiry, as well as all content area courses and field experiences prescribed in one's area of study. This course
is designed to be taken after successful completion of all courses with the exception of Educational Inquiry, which may be taken concurrently.
D046 - Introduction to Care Coordination - Introduction to Care Coordination explores the importance of understanding a patient’s illness, patient’s
needs, and care of the patient as it relates to cultural and ethical norms. This course explores role development as a care coordinator, teaches
understanding of the patient’s health goals in alignment with activities of daily living, and explores the influences of an interdisciplinary approach to
care and how a team approach facilitates a patient’s desired outcome. This course investigates the importance of a patient- and family-centered care
approach as it relates to a desired health outcome. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D047 - Roles and Responsibilities in an Interdisciplinary Team - Roles and Responsibilities in an Interdisciplinary Team helps students
understand their role as an interdisciplinary team member. This course explores attributes of an effective team and challenges traditional professional
boundaries in assembling an interdisciplinary team. The course also requires students to analyze the relationship of an individual’s expertise,
knowledge, and skill base with the impact on care coordination and patient outcomes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D048 - Communication and Organizational Awareness - Communication and Organizational Awareness will help students develop skills
associated with change management, conflict resolution, decision-making, negotiation, and team building. The course will allow students to practice
effective ways to engage with other professionals within an organization by understanding group dynamics and conflict resolution. This course will
teach students to analyze organizational communication concepts as they relate to personal experiences. This course also applies contemporary
organizational theories as they relate to group communication, intercultural communication, conflict management, and change management. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D049 - Critical Thinking and Strategic Decision-Making - Critical Thinking and Strategic Decision-Making explores the skills necessary to critique
and construct arguments and analyze solutions with a system-wide focus. This course will examine how individuals and groups work to effectively
solve problems and will explore the informal logic and decision-making processes used when creating resolutions for simple to complex decisions as a
member of an interdisciplinary healthcare team. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D050 - History of Healthcare in America - History of Healthcare in America will examine individuals such as Henrietta Lacks, Elizabeth Stern, Rita
Levi-Montalcini, Bennet Omalu, Gertrude B. Elion, and J. Robin Warren who contributed to the development of healthcare in the United States, from
its inception to present day. This course examines how specific individuals and their scientific contributions influenced healthcare delivery and the
continued evolution of healthcare, teaching from a systems or a value-based care perspective. The course also focuses on the way healthcare
interacted with culture, politics, and society throughout U.S. history and how the evolution of healthcare may not have been possible without these
individuals and others. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D051 - Care for Individuals and Families - Care for Individuals and Families focuses on the holistic care of individuals, families, and populations with
multifaceted healthcare needs. This course improves critical thinking and interdisciplinary communication skills to provide information to individuals or
groups in a variety of settings. The focus of the course is on managing the transition of an individual, family, or group through a variety of healthcare
settings, which can include acute care hospitals, extended stay facilities, ambulatory care clinics, home care, outreach, or wellness. This course helps
students develop effective professional communication skills and appropriate behaviors to ensure an individual, family, or group is successful in
meeting its healthcare goals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D052 - Navigating Care Across the Continuum - Navigating Care Across the Continuum concentrates on how services are used to promote general
well-being, resolution of physical and/or behavioral issues, and palliative and chronic care. The course will prepare students to evaluate barriers to
providing the continuity of care and ways to resolve or navigate through these barriers. The course focuses on how historical factors play a role in how
care and treatment are adjusted to meet the current needs of an individual, group, or population in a variety of care settings. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D053 - Contemporary Topics and the Influence on Healthcare Today - Contemporary Topics and the Influence on Healthcare Today analyzes
contemporary healthcare trends currently influencing health outcomes, as an individual or group, in the United States. The course helps the student
develop a comparative explanation on how internal and external structures and social, cultural, economic, and political issues influence how care is
delivered. The course critically evaluates current healthcare systems and examines how contemporary issues continue to shape healthcare. There are
no prerequisites for this course.
D054 - Cultural Awareness for the Healthcare Professional - Cultural Awareness for the Healthcare Professional focuses on the differences found
in cultures. It also focuses on how healthcare professionals can improve health outcomes and quality of care by understanding and contributing to the
elimination of racial and ethnic health disparities. This course explores the national standards of Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services
(CLAS) to decrease health disparities as healthcare professionals search for effective ways to provide care to a diverse population. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D055 - Evidenced-Based Practice for Care Coordination - Evidence-Based Practice for Care Coordination focuses on students' use of valid and
relevant external evidence to make healthcare decisions as it relates to transitioning from one service area to another. This course guides students as
they explore care coordination decisions through natural inquiry by focusing on the improvement of patient outcomes. There are no prerequisites for
this course.
D056 - Care at the End of Life - Care at the End of Life focuses on examining strategies for coping with dying and bereavement within the context of
individual and cultural variations. This course will explore ethnic and cultural factors that affect an individual’s response to loss. This course will cover
planning and implementing ideal interventions to help individuals, families, and groups cope with loss and grief. This course will also analyze the
influences of the life cycle on an individual's reaction to death. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 172
D057 - Health Equity and Social Determinants of Health - Health Equity and Social Determinants of Health introduces students to the concept of
health equity and social determinants of health. This course analyses gaps in the delivery of healthcare related to race, ethnicity, social class, gender,
nationality, and migration status. This course helps students gain an understanding of health disparities and interventions that promote health equity
by overcoming social barriers. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D058 - Health Literacy for the Client and Family - Health Literacy for the Client and Family helps students recognize the importance of health
literacy in overcoming healthcare barriers and creating patient-focused changes through family and patient empowerment. This course demonstrates
how education, research, and technology all integrate and serve as a foundation for students as they create effective resources to improve health
literacy for patients and families. This course helps students become advocates for their patients and their patients’ families. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D059 - Healthcare Values and Ethics - Healthcare Values and Ethics requires students to synthesize an interdisciplinary approach to decision-
making as it applies to healthcare professionals. This course explores the contemporary issues facing healthcare professionals, which include patient
autonomy, competence, and the health professional–patient relationships. In this course, students will develop their ability to critically analyze
biomedical situations related to the ethical care of an individual along with the justice in distribution of healthcare. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
D060 - Community Relations and Leadership - Community Relations and Leadership focuses on leadership principles and how to apply them in
real-world contexts. The course prepares students to analyze community needs and create change through community engagement. As leaders, the
students' job is to engage in collaborative approaches with an understanding that the overarching goal is sustained success. This course helps
students develop their abilities to negotiate challenges, make decisions, and act to bring stakeholders together to create transformation within
communities. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D061 - Care Coordination for the Patient (Chronic, Palliative, Behavioral, Population) - Care Coordination for the Patient will focus on the role of
the care coordinator within acute care hospitals, extended stay facilities, ambulatory care, home care, wellness, and outreach. This course will also
cover operationalizing how to provide care coordination for patients with chronic disease and discuss palliative and behavioral care needs and
population health. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D062 - Health Services Coordination Field Experience - Health Services Coordination Field Experience provides students with real-world
experiences as a care coordinator. This course requires students to record 40 hours of care coordination activities. This course allows students to
conduct their field experience in a variety of settings. The course educates students on how to coordinate and execute practices that facilitate the
transition of care within a healthcare setting.
D063 - Models of Care and Healthcare Trends - Models of Care and Healthcare Trends examines the unique characteristics of healthcare models in
the United States. The course explores the evolution of healthcare models from fragmented systems to cohesive, quality-centric, and patient-focused
systems. The focus of the course is on emerging trends created by social and political drivers and subsequent shifts in the continuum of care as it
relates to patient outcomes. This course has no prerequisites.
D064 - Health Services Coordination Capstone - Health Services Coordination Capstone is an integrative experience in which students draw from
all subjects in the degree program to create a comprehensive product. The course will give students the opportunity to demonstrate their ability to think
critically through complex healthcare situations, engage in interdisciplinary decision-making, and demonstrate effective communication to create care
coordination solutions. These solutions will be a mechanism to improve patient-focused care coordination while in transition and decrease readmission
rates while reducing the cost of care.
D065 - Healthcare Ecosystems - Healthcare Ecosystems explores the history and state of healthcare organizations in an ever-changing
environment. This course covers how agencies influence healthcare delivery through legal, licensure, certification, and accreditation standards. The
course will also discuss how new technologies and trends keep healthcare delivery innovative and current. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D066 - Health and Wellness through Nutritional Science - Nutritional ignorance or misunderstandings are at the root of the health problems that
most Americans face today. Health professionals need to be armed with the most current information available about nutrition science, including how
to understand nutritional content of food; implications of exercise and activity on food consumption and weight management, and management of
community or population specific nutritional challenges. The Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science course should prepare health
professionals to provide support, guidance, and teaching about incorporation of sound nutritional principles into daily life for health promotion. This
course covers the following concepts: nutrition to support wellness; healthy nutritional choices; nutrition and physical activity; nutrition through the
lifecycle; safety and security of food; and nutrition and global health environments.
D067 - Care of the Older Adult - Care of the Older Adult adapts the concepts from prior coursework to the care of older adults. An understanding of
the effects that policy and legislation have on how healthcare systems treat aging patients sets a foundation for improving their care. Students will
apply health assessment skills and evidence-based standards in such a way to account for the specific needs of older adults. Emphasis is placed on
the importance of maintaining the dignity of older adults by focusing on cultural, religious, spiritual, and communication needs, and by collaborating on
care with older adults, families, and caregivers.
D068 - Introduction to Pharmacology - Introduction to Pharmacology provides information about drug development and approvals, pharmaceutical
classifications, metabolism, and the effect of drugs on body systems. The course will introduce advancements in pharmaceutical technology,
regulatory requirements within electronic health record systems, and the financial implications of pharmaceutical coding and billing. This course has no
prerequisites.
D069 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is an overview of the pathology and treatment of diseases in the human body and its systems. This
course will explain the processes in the body that result in the signs and symptoms of disease, as well as therapeutic procedures in managing or
curing the disease. The content draws on a knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand how diseases manifest themselves and how they
affect the body.
D070 - Technology Applications in Healthcare - Technology Applications in Healthcare explores how technology continues to change and influence
the healthcare industry. The course examines practical managerial applications as well as the legal, ethical, and practical aspects of access to health
and disease information with an emphasis on ensuring the protection of private health information. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D071 - Financial Resource Management and Healthcare Reimbursement - Financial Resource Management and Healthcare Reimbursement
examines financial practices and reimbursement methodologies within the healthcare industry. This course covers the analysis of governmental
regulations and laws ensuring alignment with billing and coding practices. This course also covers the evaluation of effective revenue cycle
management focusing on the organization’s financial stability. This course has no prerequisites.
D072 - Fundamentals for Success in Business - This introductory course provides students with an overview of the field of business and a basic
understanding of how management, organizational structure, communication, and leadership styles affect the business environment. It also introduces
them to some of the power skills that help make successful business professionals, including time management, problem solving, emotional
intelligence and innovation; while also teaching them the importance of ethics. This course gives students an opportunity to begin to explore their own
strengths and passions in relation to the field while also acclimating them to the online competency-based environment.
D075 - Information Technology Management Essentials - Information Technology Management Essentials includes topics such as information
systems analysis, database resource management, spreadsheet literacy, and computer literacy concepts. This course will help students understand
the importance of information technology in an organization and apply databases to solve business problems. This course serves as a preview course
for the ITM major.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 173
D076 - Finance Skills for Managers - This course provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of finance and its context within the
business environment. Students gain the knowledge to differentiate between personal and business finance and how they may overlap in a business
environment. Students also gain a fundamental knowledge of financial forecasting and budgeting, statement analysis, and decision making. This
course provides the student a business generalist overview of the field of finance and builds on previous acquired competencies related to using
spreadsheets.
D077 - Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact - Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact introduces students to the
discipline of marketing and its role within the strategic and operational environments of a business. This course covers fundamental knowledge in the
area of marketing planning, including the marketing mix, while also describing basic concepts of brand management, digital marketing, customer
relationship management, and personal selling and negotiating. All of this helps students identify the role of marketing within an organization. This
course provides students with a business generalist overview of the field of marketing and an exploration of the marketing major.
D078 - Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and Legal Environment - Business Environment Applications 1 provides
students with a generalist overview of the business environment and a deeper look at a number of topics that make up the non-discipline areas of
business which are required for a business person to be successful within any business environment. The first part of the course focuses on
knowledge about organizations and how people operate within organizations, including the areas of organizational theory, structure, and effectiveness.
The course then looks at business from a legal perspective with an overview of the legal environment of business. The course will prepare the student
to consider specific legal situations and to make legal and ethical decisions related to those situations.
D079 - Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and Operations - Business Environment II: Logistics, Process, and Operations
provides students with a generalist overview of the business environment as they explore themes of ethics, problem-solving, and innovative thinking.
This course adds to the students’ business skills and knowledge in a number of professional areas. The first part of the course uncovers a series of
business processes like project and risk management. The second part gives an introductory-level look at the specialized areas of operations
management, supply chains, and logistics. The course finishes with models of change management and how to use them to overcome barriers in
organizations.
D080 - Managing in a Global Business Environment - Managing in a Global Business Environment provides students with a generalist overview of
business from a global perspective, while also developing basic skills and knowledge to help them make strategic decisions, communicate, and
develop personal relationships in a global environment. Business today is by its very nature a global environment, and individuals working in business
will experience the global nature of business as they progress through their careers. This course builds on previously acquired competencies by
providing an overview of U.S. federal laws in relation to doing business in a global environment.
D081 - Innovative and Strategic Thinking - This course covers an important part of being a business professional: the knowledge and skills used in
building and implementing business strategy. The course helps students build on previously acquired competencies in the areas of management,
innovative thinking, and risk management while introducing them to the concepts and theories underpinning business strategy as a general business
perspective. The course will help students gain skills in analyzing different business environments and in using quantitative literacy and data analysis
in business strategy development and implementation. This course helps to provide students with a generalist overview of the area of business
strategy.
D082 - Emotional and Cultural Intelligence - Emotional and Cultural Intelligence focuses on key personal awareness skills that businesses request
when hiring personnel. Key among those abilities is communication. Students will increase their skills in written, verbal, and nonverbal communication
skills. The course then looks at three areas of personal awareness including emotional intelligence (EI), cultural awareness, and ethical self-
awareness – building on previously acquired competencies and adding new ones. This course helps start students on a road of self-discovery,
cultivating awareness to improve both as a business professional and personally.
D084 - Cloud Platform Solutions - Cloud Platform Solutions examines the skills and knowledge students need to configure cloud storage, security,
networking, compute resources through PowerShell, command line interface, and the Azure portal. Students will learn how to manage Azure
resources; configure and manage storage; configure and manage virtual machines and networks; and manage identities using tools such as Azure
Active Directory (AD) join, Azure AD objects, and hybrid identities through Azure AD Connect. The following courses are prerequisites: Network and
Security - Foundations, Network and Security - Applications, Networks, and Cloud Applications.
D085 - Automation and Scaling Tools - Automation and Scaling Tools examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively write scripts for tools
to monitor system and network resources. Through practical application in labs, students will gain hands-on experience for planning, deploying, and
maintaining scalable and elastic design, system monitoring, and performance tuning solutions. Students will learn how to identify common constraints
and performance considerations, configure monitoring tools to efficiently balance system resources for a given environment, and ensure appropriate
systematic response. This course provides students authentic learning opportunities for high-demand skills related to system automation and scaling.
D086 - Desktop Virtualization - Desktop Virtualization examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively manage virtual desktop
environments. Through practical application in virtual labs, students will gain hands-on experience for planning, deploying, and maintaining
workstation virtualization, virtual storage, and networking solutions. Students learn how to choose appropriate hypervisor(s) for a given environment,
isolate networks and applications, and improve portability and migration. This course provides students authentic learning opportunities for high
demand virtualization skills.
D087 - Data Center Virtualization - Data Center Virtualization examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively evaluate business needs for
virtualized data centers and manage the network, storage, and server technology solutions. Through the use of immersive lab experiences, students
gain practical experience in virtualizing physical servers in a data center facility along with storage, networking and other infrastructure devices and
equipment. Students learn how to virtualize and manage data centers. This course provides students hands-on learning opportunities for high
demand data center virtualization skills.
D088 - Cloud Architecture - Cloud Architecture examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively manage structured cloud environments.
Through practical application in virtual labs, students will gain hands-on experience for planning and deploying system design and monitoring, as well
as performance tuning solutions. Students learn how to choose appropriate core networking service configurations for a given environment, implement
authorization and authentication processes, and ensure cloud security. This course provides students authentic learning opportunities for high demand
cloud configuration and management skills.
D089 - Principles of Economics - Principles of Economics provides students with the knowledge they need to be successful managers, including
basic economic theories related to markets and how markets function. This course starts by defining economics, differentiating between
microeconomics and macroeconomics, and explaining the fundamental economic principles of each. It then looks at microeconomics and how it is
used to make business and public policy decisions, including the principles of supply, demand, and elasticity, market efficiency, cost of production, and
different market structures. The course finishes by looking at macroeconomics and how it is used to make business and public policy decisions,
including measurement of macroeconomic variables, aggregate supply and demand, the concepts of an open economy, and how trade policies
influence domestic and international markets.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 174
D090 - The School as a Community of Care - The School as a Community of Care is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a
required course for all initial licensure candidates. This course prepares candidates to meet the social and emotional needs of learners, taking into
account theories and philosophical perspectives on child and adolescent development and learning. Candidates learn to effectively collaborate with
parents, families, caregivers, and other community stakeholders in each child's education, to build a strong foundation for academic and personal
success. Emphasis is placed on family engagement as candidates gain knowledge of individual, cultural, and community assets that can be used to
facilitate learner growth and development, as well as understand mental health and emotional differences among learners that may necessitate
leveraging additional resources to support students' wellbeing. Issues of youth mental health, substance abuse, suicide awareness and prevention,
and abuse within families will be addressed as will the importance of parent involvement. Candidates will engage in seven hours of preclinical
experiences, which include visual observations of learning environments that involve parents and families in their children's' education while
supporting the social and emotional learning (SEL) needs of learners and an interview with an educational professional to explore topics related to
parent involvement, youth mental health issues, and professional responsibilities to ensure student wellbeing. Additionally, crosscutting themes of
technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Educational
Psychology and Development of Children and Adolescents course.
D091 - Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment - Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment is a key component of
WGU's Professional Core and is a required course for all initial licensure candidates. This course provides candidates with the knowledge and skills
necessary to create engaging and standards-aligned lessons that meet the needs of all learners. Candidates will learn to analyze learner needs based
on a variety of inputs, including their state P–12 standards, assessment results, and knowledge of learner differences. This course will help candidates
design, deliver, and modify instruction in accordance to needs and educational requirements. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical
experiences that include virtual classroom observations. They also will record a short teaching segment, allowing for authentic teaching experience.
Crosscutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for continued development. This course is designed to be taken after successful
completion of the Managing Engaging Learning Environments course.
D092 - Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning - Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning is a key component of WGU's
professional core and is a required course for all initial licensure candidates. This course prepares candidates to incorporate technology into their
classroom practices in ways that improve teaching and learning. The ISTE standards will form the basis for their practice. The material will teach
candidates to critically evaluate software and hardware options that may positively impact the classroom environment, while also increasing their
awareness of ethical usage and considerations related to equity, access to technology, and appropriate use of technology by P–12 students. Assistive
technologies to meet the needs of a diverse learner population also will be taught in this course. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical
experience that include virtual observations of classroom practices incorporating technology to support educational goals. Crosscutting themes of
technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Assessing
Impact on Student Learning course.
D093 - Assessing Impact on Student Learning - Assessing Impact on Student Learning is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a
required course for all initial licensure candidates. This course equips candidates to evaluate student learning and their own professional practice,
ensuring candidates are prepared to ensure all learners' success. In this course, candidates learn multiple methods of assessment to ensure they are
able to implement a balanced approach to assessment while monitoring their students’ progress. Assessments types such as formative, summative,
standardized, and common assessments are addressed so candidates understand their purposes and can apply them within the context of a lesson to
determine impact on learning. Data literacy skills are taught to ensure candidates interpret and analyze individual and classroom data and apply their
knowledge in ways that support academic success. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experiences that include virtual classroom
observations. Cross-cutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be taken after
successful completion of the Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment course.
D094 - Educational Psychology and Development of Children and Adolescents - Educational Psychology and Development of Children and
Adolescents is a key component of WGU’s Professional Core and is a required course for all initial licensure candidates. This course prepares
candidates to support classroom practices grounded in research-validated principles from the areas of educational psychology and child/adolescent
development. Candidates will be introduced to learning theories that equip them with the knowledge and skills necessary to support the diverse
populations of students with whom they will interact. This course addresses theories of human development, spanning early childhood through
adolescence, and candidates completing this course will be able to explain and analyze the guiding perspectives on linguistic, physical, cognitive, and
social development. This course will also cover appropriate instructional and assessment strategies to support student learning and development.
Candidates will engage in four hours of virtual classroom observations related to issues in educational psychology and learner development. Cross-
cutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
the Educational Foundations course.
D095 - Managing Engaging Learning Environments - Managing Engaging Learning Environments is a key component of WGU's Professional Core
and is a required course for all initial licensure candidates. This course prepares candidates to establish and contribute to safe and productive learning
environments that support the success of all learners by ensuring student engagement and motivation for learning. Candidates will learn strategies,
such as incorporating consistent routines and expectations, to provide positive behavior supports, increase learner motivation, promote active learning
and self-direction, and ensure a safe and productive classroom setting that fosters a sense of community through collaborative educational practices.
The course will culminate in evidence-based, practical application of current strategies, theories, or philosophical perspectives related to motivating
and engaging all students in a learning community. Candidates will engage in seven hours of preclinical experiences that include both virtual
observations of classroom settings and time in a simulated classroom environment where theory can be put into practice. Cross-cutting themes of
technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Fundamentals
of Diverse Learners course.
D096 - Fundamentals of Diverse Learners - Fundamentals of Diverse Learners is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a required
course for all initial licensure candidates. This course prepares candidates to consider and address the wide range of learning needs in the classrooms
of today. This course teaches candidates to identify and support the needs of diverse populations of learners, including, for example, students with
disabilities (INCLUDING DYSLEXIA), English language learners, and gifted and talented students. Practical strategies for differentiating instruction
while creating a safe, inclusive, and culturally responsive learning environment are explored. This course helps candidates develop skills for partnering
with parents and advocating for all students, particularly those impacted by provisions of IDEA and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. Multitiered
systems of supports are addressed to prepare candidates for their future classrooms as they seek to select appropriate instructional practices and
interventions to best serve their students. Candidates will engage in four hours of preclinical experiences that includes a simulated teaching
experience in which skills learned can be applied. Cross-cutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This
course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the School as a Community of Care course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 175
D097 - Educational Foundations - Educational Foundations is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a required course for all initial
licensure candidates. The course provides candidates with early classroom experience where they observe multiple school settings at three different
levels of schooling and interview an educator to learn how state standards and various legal and ethical issues affect classrooms today. The course
also provides candidates with opportunities to gain foundational knowledge about what it means to be a teacher in the current educational context
while exploring their future role within the larger landscape of historical and cultural influences. This course ensures candidates have a firm grasp on
important issues affecting educators including state standards-based curriculum, legal and ethical requirements affecting educational opportunities,
and professionalism, preparing them for subsequent coursework within the Professional Core and their content area major courses. Five preclinical
hours are interwoven throughout this course, and cross-cutting themes of technology and diversity are introduced for further development throughout
the candidate’s programs.
D098 - Digital Marketing - This course provides students with a knowledge of digital marketing and an introduction to specializations within digital
marketing. Foundational knowledge in the areas of content marketing, digital advertising, search engine optimization, social media, web development
and analysis, and marketing automation is provided. Students gain a broad overview of digital marketing and an opportunity to explore specific areas
of specialization within the field of digital marketing to understand how digital marketing is integrated within a firm’s overall marketing strategy.
D099 - Sales Management - This course provides students with knowledge on the sales profession, customer relationship management, and sales
management functions. Students gain insights into the sales process, the relationship between sales and marketing, and the responsibilities of sales
management within both business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) selling environments.
D100 - Introduction to Spreadsheets - The Introduction to Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to
analyze business problems. Students will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business applications (e.g., using
essential spreadsheet functions, formulas, tables, charts, etc.). Introduction to Spreadsheets has no prerequisites.
D101 - Cost and Managerial Accounting - Cost and Managerial Accounting focuses on the concepts and procedures needed to identify, collect, and
interpret accounting data for management control and decision-making. Topics covered include budgeting, cost-volume-profit analysis, job costing,
process costing, activity-based costing, standard costing, and differential analysis. Prerequisites include Principles of Accounting and Financial
Accounting.
D102 - Financial Accounting - Financial Accounting focuses on ways in which accounting principles are used in business operations. Students learn
the basics of financial accounting, including how the accounting cycle is used to record business transactions under generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP). Students will also be introduced to the concepts of assets, liabilities, and equity. This course also presents bank reconciliation
methods, balance sheets, and business ethics. Principles of Accounting is a prerequisite for this course.
D103 - Intermediate Accounting I - Intermediate Accounting I is the first of three in-depth financial accounting courses for accounting majors. The
course builds upon topics covered in Principles of Accounting and Financial Accounting. The course focuses on financial accounting and accounting
standards; the conceptual framework of the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); the income statement, the statement of cash flows,
and the balance sheet; cash and receivables; and inventory valuation. The prerequisite to this course is Financial Accounting.
D104 - Intermediate Accounting II - Intermediate Accounting II is the second of three in-depth financial accounting courses for accounting majors.
The course focuses on acquisition and disposition of noncurrent assets; depreciation, impairments, and depletion; intangible assets; current liabilities
and contingencies; long-term obligations; stockholders' equity; dilutive securities; and time value of money concepts. The prerequisite to this course is
Intermediate Accounting I.
D105 - Intermediate Accounting III - Intermediate Accounting III provides comprehensive coverage of investments, revenue recognition, accounting
for income taxes, pension plans, and leases. This course completes the intermediate accounting journey. The course explores further advanced
topics, including accounting changes and error analysis, full disclosure requirements in financial reporting, and interpretation of the statement of cash
flows. Intermediate Accounting I and II are the prerequisites for this course.
D114 - Implementing and Administering Networking Solutions - This course prepares students for the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)
certification exam CCNA-200-301.
D115 - Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the
graduate nursing student for the role of an advanced practice nurse with the competencies and skills needed to recognize disease states, identify
disease progression, and assess and evaluate symptoms for patients across the lifespan. This course will help the graduate nursing student gain a
deeper understanding of pathophysiology from the cellular to the systems level and will provide graduate nursing students with the knowledge and
skills to determine the etiology, underlying physiological changes, and the human affective responses to alterations in health. This course will also
prepare the graduate nursing student to communicate the pathophysiology of disease processes to providers and patients. All MSN Core courses
must be completed before taking this course.
D116 - Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the
graduate nursing student for the role of an advanced practice nurse with the competencies and skills for prescribing and monitoring medication safely
and effectively. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to apply pharmacotherapeutics in primary care settings by utilizing the pivotal
basis of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to select the correct medication,
describe the rationale for that selection to the patient, family, and other providers, and to effectively monitor the patient to promote positive drug
outcomes. All MSN Core courses must be completed before taking this course.
D117 - Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Health Assessment prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies necessary to provide primary health care to patients and families of
diverse populations. Students will develop the skills needed for systematically collecting and analyzing subjective and objective patient data. Through
simulation and clinical experiences, students will use data to determine current and ongoing patient health status, predict health risks, and identify
health-promoting activities for patients across the lifespan. Advanced Health Assessment will prepare the nursing graduate with the critical thinking,
clinical reasoning, and advanced diagnostic skills required for advanced practice nursing. Upon completion of Advanced Health Assessment, the
graduate will be able to synthesize individual and systems level subjective and objective data to facilitate the differential diagnosis processes. Also, the
graduate will be able to clearly describe to patients and providers the pertinent health assessment findings and rationale supporting the diagnostic
process.
D118 - Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate nursing
student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to provide primary healthcare to adult
patients and families. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to demonstrate competence in leading health promotion and disease
prevention activities; diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for patients with acute and chronic conditions; and empowering patients to pursue
positive health outcomes. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to collaborate with adult patients to develop effective plans of
care that build patient self-efficacy in the process of preventing and treating disease. All MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the
Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice
Nurse must be completed before taking this course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 176
D119 - Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate
nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to provide primary healthcare
to pediatric patients, from infancy through adolescence, and their families in an outpatient setting. This course will prepare the graduate nursing
student to demonstrate competence in leading health promotion and disease prevention activities; in diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for
pediatric patients with acute and chronic conditions; and in empowering patients and their families in pursuing positive health outcomes. This course
will also prepare the graduate nursing student to collaborate with pediatric patients and their families in developing effective plans of care that build
patient and family self-efficacy in the process of preventing and treating disease. All MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced
Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse must
be completed before taking this course.
D120 - Special Populations Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Special Populations Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse
prepares the graduate nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to
provide primary healthcare to unique patient populations in the outpatient setting. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to
demonstrate competence in leading health promotion and disease prevention activities; in diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for patients
with specific disease processes; and in empowering patients and their families in pursuing positive health outcomes. This course will also prepare the
graduate nursing student to collaborate with unique patient populations and their families in developing effective plans of care that build self-efficacy in
the process of preventing and treating specific disease processes. All MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice
Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse must be
completed before taking this course.
D121 - Health Promotion of Patients and Populations Across the Lifespan - Health Promotion of Patients and Populations Across the Lifespan
prepares the graduate nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to
provide health promotion activities to individuals and populations. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to incorporate individual
characteristics, population factors, and social determinants of health (SDOH) in determining the most efficient use of finite resources in leading health
promotion activities. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to lead health promotion activities for individuals and specific
populations across the lifespan. All MSN Core courses, as well as Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced
Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse must be completed before taking
this course.
D122 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families,
and groups throughout the life span. Using the precepted clinical setting, this course will provide opportunities for the graduate nursing student to
combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver patient-centered healthcare. This course will also provide
the graduate nursing student with opportunities to conduct advanced health assessments and use the competencies of advanced pathophysiology,
pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy in individuals and groups, determine
correct diagnoses, and establish plans of care that include patient and population preferences. All MSN Core courses and FNP Specialty courses
must be completed before taking this course.
D123 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families,
and groups throughout the life span. In the precepted clinical setting, the student will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced
practice coursework to deliver consumer-centered healthcare. The student will conduct advanced health assessments and use the competencies of
advanced pathophysiology, pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy in individuals
and groups, determine correct diagnoses, and establish plans of care that include consumer and population preferences. There are no prerequisites
for this course.
D124 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families,
and groups across throughout the lifespan. In the precepted clinical setting, the student will combine competencies developed in preparatory
advanced practice coursework to deliver consumer-centered healthcare. Therefore, the graduate will conduct advanced health assessments and
utilize the competencies of advanced pathophysiology, pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to
build self-efficacy in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish plans of care that include consumer and population
preferences. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D125 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators I - Mathematics for Elementary Educators I guides preservice elementary teachers in an
investigation of number systems, place value, number theory, and ratio and proportion. This is the first course in a three-course sequence. There are
no prerequisites for this course.
D126 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators II - Mathematics for Elementary Educators II engages preservice elementary school teachers in
mathematical practices of algebraic reasoning. This course explores important algebraic topics such as patterns, expressions and equations, linear
equations, inequalities, and functions. This is the second course in a three-course sequence.
D127 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III engages preservice elementary teachers in important
concepts in geometry, measurement, data analysis and statistics, and probability. This is the third course in a three-course sequence.
D128 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators - Mathematics for Elementary Educators engages preservice elementary teachers in important
concepts in geometry, measurement, data analysis and statistics, and probability.
D130 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D131 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D132 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D133 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D134 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 177
D135 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D136 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D137 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D138 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
D139 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
D140 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
D141 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
D142 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
D143 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
D144 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
D145 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
D146 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment course is a culmination of the wide
variety of skills learned during a student’s time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher,
students will showcase a collection of their content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
D147 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary and Special Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment course is a culmination
of the wide variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher,
you will showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
D148 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment course is a culmination of the wide
variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will
showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
D149 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education - Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education course is a culmination
of the wide variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher,
you will showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
D150 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Science - Teacher Performance Assessment in Science course is a culmination of the wide variety of
skills learned in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, students will showcase a collection of
content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
D151 - Professional Portfolio - Professional Portfolio requires candidates to create an online teaching portfolio that demonstrates professional
beliefs, growth, and effective teaching practices from the Demonstration Teaching experience. The portfolio includes reflective essays (educational
beliefs, professional growth, and collaboration with stakeholders) and professional artifacts (resume and artifacts with commentary on academic
language, systems of student support, education technology, and professional communication with families) developed and acquired during
Demonstration Teaching.
D152 - Inclusive Classroom - Inclusive Classroom introduces and prepares candidates to use a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies
to advance the learning of elementary students with mild to moderate exceptionalities. The beginning of the course focuses on multitiered systems of
support. Strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions, such as making instructional decisions based on progress monitoring
data and collaborating with the special education teacher, are targeted. The second portion of the course provides opportunities for candidates to
incorporate intensive instructional strategies and practice making accommodations to elementary math and literacy lesson plans based on learner
characteristics, performance data, and Individualized Education Program (IEP) goals. This course is designed to be taken by candidates after they
have completed D091, Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment; D365 Lang. Arts Instruction and Intervention; D909, Elementary
Reading Methods and Interventions; and D109, Elementary Mathematics Methods.
D153 - Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis - Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis introduces students to the skills necessary
to perform penetration testing and vulnerability management within an organization. The course covers widely used penetration testing techniques that
focus on planning and scoping, information gathering, vulnerability identification, and attacks and exploits. The course also introduces students to tools
that can be used for penetration testing, reporting, and communication.
D155 - Leading with Personal Mastery - Leading with Personal Mastery prepares the advanced professional nurse to demonstrate self-awareness,
self-management, executive function, and social awareness skills while leading and managing in diverse healthcare settings. In this course, students
will learn how to incorporate these skills when developing personal relationships and building teams. Developing both social and emotional intelligence
as a nurse leader will ensure that students have the ability develop strong relationships and make wise decisions when interacting with others.
Increasing personal mastery will provide students with a set of tools and strategies to improve healthcare by producing high-quality results.
Understanding their strengths and weaknesses, as a leader in healthcare will help students create a vision for success that includes making choices
that will help balance their work life more effectively.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 178
D156 - Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement - Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement provides learning experiences
that help students develop essential skills for proposing changes that improve and enhance healthcare outcomes. In this course, students will develop
a business case during the early stages of a project by assessing the need for the project and the feasibility of initiating a project. Understanding the
techniques used to develop a business case will provide students with the skills to obtain buy-in from key stakeholders and determine the best value
strategy. Writing a strong business case presents the benefits, challenges, costs, and risks of moving forward with the project or maintaining status
quo. It compares the current situation to a future vision so key stakeholders can make data-driven decisions to move forward with the project. During
the development of a business case in this course, students will collaborate with internal and external stakeholders to initiate a healthcare
improvement project (HIP) that is grounded in project management principles and influenced by stakeholder perspectives.
D157 - Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption - Managing Human and Financial Resources in an Era of Disruption examines the main
premise of people and fiscal leadership. This includes the promotion of healthy work environments through the development of programs in support of
mitigating behavior problems for the betterment of work-life balance. Students will analyze business model budgets, revenue streams, and human and
financial resource allocation, develop training programs to evaluate compliance and regulatory requirement, and create team building experiences to
promote high performing teams by improving engagement, establishing trust, and achieving common goals. Students will assess an organization’s
mission, vision, and values to establish alignment between healthcare improvement and an organization’s principles for management. Changes in
healthcare are inevitable, as the business success strategies used in the past are not sufficient for surviving in an era of persistent disruption. This
course will help students develop the skills nurse leaders need to become partners in recommending innovative strategies that promote value-based
healthcare for the future.
D158 - Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare Improvement Project - Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare
Improvement Project will help students develop the skills for systems thinking, problem-solving, and data-driven decision-making. In this course,
students will plan the implementation of a healthcare improvement project by identifying people, processes, and procedures that need to be in place
for implementation. In addition, sociodemographic data on the population that may be affected by the healthcare improvement project will be analyzed
to determine risks and opportunities. During this phase, students will perform an assessment of the forces for and against implementing the project.
They will also identify short-term objectives and create action plans to align to the vision, mission, and values of the organization where the project will
be implemented. Students will also examine the evolution of existing policies, procedures, and processes at the systems level for the purpose of
advocating change that will support a healthcare improvement project. During this course, students will plan the implementation of their healthcare
improvement project through the use of sociodemographic and health data, strategic planning, and a comprehensive integration of quality and safety
concepts.
D159 - Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating Healthcare Improvements - Evidence-based measures for evaluating healthcare improvements
is an essential component of the planning phase of the healthcare improvement project. In this course, students will determine key performance
indicators and metrics used to determine the success of a healthcare improvement project (HIP). The student will develop collaborative partnerships
and build consensus with stakeholders to determine how specific data will be collected, managed, and analyzed. This is also an opportunity to discuss
data issues and technologies needed for the project. To accomplish this phase, students will also determine the parameters, procedures, and
technologies needed for data collection, management, analysis, and reporting.
D160 - Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience - The Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience course provides an
opportunity for students to apply the knowledge and skills they developed in previous courses toward the successful implementation of their healthcare
improvement project (HIP). This phase puts into action all the components of project management that were planned and developed while working
collaboratively with key stakeholders to establish the need and feasibility of the HIP, analyzing the organizational readiness for change, and planning
the implementation and evaluation phases. In this phase, students will develop and implement a training plan for staff, managers, and leaders. They
will also implement the communication plan they developed in a previous course. They will also manage the implementation process by applying
organizational standards and practices. Students will demonstrate strong leadership skills when meeting with stakeholders to report the status of the
implementation phase and collaboratively problem-solve risks. Completion of the specialty courses is a pre-requisite for this course.
D161 - Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone - The Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone provides students with an
opportunity to evaluate and close their capstone project. This is the final course in the MSN Leadership and Management program. Students will
evaluate the success of their healthcare improvement project (HIP) by analyzing results, using the key performance indicators and metrics that were
identified while planning the evaluation phase. Students will present the results of the improvement project in a final report and presentation with a
focus on lessons learned throughout each of the phases: initiation, planning, implementation, and evaluation. Reflective and analytic thinking are
essential aspects of a capstone project, as students reflect and report on the successes and challenges encountered in each phase. In this course,
students will also have an opportunity to earn the Certified Professional in Healthcare Quality certification by completing and passing the National
Association for Healthcare Quality (NAHQ) CPHQ Certification test. Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience is a prerequisite for this
course.
D162 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in middle and high
school improve upon the literacy skills required to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Themes
include exploring how language structures, text features, vocabulary, and context influence reading comprehension across the curriculum. Course
content highlights strategies and tools designed to help teachers assess the reading comprehension and writing proficiency of learners and provides
strategies to support student reading and writing success in all curriculum areas. This course has no prerequisites.
D163 - Secondary Reading Instruction and Interventions - Secondary Reading Instruction and Intervention explores the comprehensive, student-
centered Response to Intervention (RTI) assessment and intervention model used to identify and address the needs of learners in middle school and
high school who struggle with reading comprehension and/or information retention. Course content provides educators with effective strategies
designed to scaffold instruction and help learners develop increased skill in the following areas: reading, vocabulary, text structures and genres, and
logical reasoning related to the academic disciplines. This course has no prerequisites.
D164 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help learners in grades K–6
develop the literacy skills necessary to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Course content
highlights strategies to help learners distinguish between the unique characteristics of informational texts while improving comprehension and writing
proficiency across the curriculum. Strategies to encourage inquiry and cultivate skills in critical thinking, collaboration, and creativity are also
addressed. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR
Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
D165 - Children’s Literature - Children's Literature is an introduction to and exploration of children's literature. Students will consider and analyze
children's literature as a lens through which to view the world. Students will experience multiple genres, historical perspectives, cultural
representations, and current applications in the field of children's literature. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 179
D166 - Foundations of Education - Foundations of Education is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a required course for all
Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This course introduces candidates to foundational knowledge about the teaching profession in the current
educational context and the historical and cultural influences on P-12 education in the United States. This course addresses important topics that
affect educators today including state standards-based curriculum, legal and ethical requirements, and professionalism. This course will culminate in
evidence-based, practical application of current strategies, theories, or philosophical perspectives related to becoming an effective educator within the
current school context. Candidates will engage in five hours of preclinical experiences, which include virtual observations of learning environments in
multiple school settings, and an interview with an educator to gain insight on how these topics affect and inform teaching practice. Cross-cutting
themes of technology and diversity are introduced for further development throughout the candidate’s programs.
D168 - Schools as Communities of Care - Schools as Communities of Care is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a required
course for all Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This course introduces candidates to strategies for providing a culturally inclusive learning
environment that meets the social and emotional needs of learners while taking into account theories and philosophical perspectives on child and
adolescent development and learning. Emphasis is placed on fostering a collaborative relationship with families, caregivers, and community
stakeholders, and on leveraging community resources to support each learner’s growth and well-being to build a strong foundation for their academic
and personal success. Topics addressed include culturally responsive practice, social and emotional learning (SEL), youth mental health, substance
abuse, suicide awareness and prevention, abuse within families, and professional responsibilities to ensure student wellbeing. The course will
culminate in evidence-based, practical application of strategies that support the whole child in a community of care. Candidates will engage in seven
hours of preclinical experiences, include virtual observations of learning environments that involve parents and families in their children's' education
and an interview with an educational professional. Cross-cutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This
course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children and Adolescents
course.
D169 - Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners - Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners is a key component of WGU's
Professional Core and is a required course for all Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This course focuses on inclusive and responsive practices
and interventions for meeting the needs of diverse populations of learners, including students with disabilities (INCLUDING DYSLEXIA), English
language learners, and gifted and talented students. Candidates will apply practical strategies for differentiating instruction, partnering with parents,
implementing a Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS), and advocating for all students, particularly those impacted by provisions of IDEA and
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, for the purpose of creating an accessible, equitable, inclusive, and culturally responsive learning experience. The
course will culminate in practical application of evidence-based multi-tiered intervention strategies to support positive behavior and learning in the
classroom for diverse learners. Candidates will engage in four hours of preclinical experiences that include a simulated teaching experience in which
skills learned can be applied. Cross-cutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be
taken after successful completion of the Schools as Communities of Care course.
D170 - Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments - Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments is a key component
of WGU's Professional Core and is a required course for all Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This course provides candidates with research-
based strategies and approaches to establishing and maintaining a safe and productive learning environment that supports the success and well-
being of all P-12 learners. Topics addressed include consistent routines and expectations, student engagement, positive behavior support, motivation
and its effect on student achievement, active learning and self-direction, and fostering a sense of community through collaboration. Candidates will
design a classroom management plan for their future classroom based on theory and high-leverage practices for meeting the diverse needs of
learners in a productive and collaborative learning environment. The course will culminate in evidence-based, practical application of current strategies
to motivate and engage students in specific content areas. Candidates will engage in seven hours of preclinical experiences that include both virtual
observations of classroom settings and time in a simulated classroom environment where theory can be put into practice. Cross-cutting themes of
technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Essential
Practices for Supporting Diverse Learners course.
D171 - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment - Curriculum, Instruction, & Assessment is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a
required course for all Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This course provides candidates with theoretical foundations and strategies for creating
engaging and standards-aligned lessons that meet the needs of all learners in the P-12 classroom. This course focuses on the interrelationship
between curriculum, instruction, and assessment, with emphasis on the role of assessment and student data in planning, designing, delivering, and
modifying instruction in accordance with diverse learner needs. This course will culminate in the application of evidence-based strategies related to the
interdependence of and alignment among curriculum, instruction, and assessment in student-centered P-12 teaching and learning. Candidates will
engage in three hours of preclinical experiences, which include conducting virtual classroom observations and recording a short teaching segment.
Crosscutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for continued development. This course is designed to be taken after successful
completion of the Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments course.
D172 - Assessing Student Learning - Assessing Student Learning is a key component of WGU's Professional Core and is a required course for all
Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This course provides candidates with methods and best practices for using assessment to monitor student
progress and to evaluate the effectiveness of instruction. This course focuses on implementing a balanced approach to assessment using multiple
assessment types such as formative, summative, standardized, and common assessments. Also covered are data literacy skills for interpreting and
analyzing individual learner and classroom data to improve instruction and support academic success for all learners. The course will culminate in
evidence-based, practical application of strategies for assessment practices in P-12 schools. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical
experiences that include virtual classroom observations. Cross-cutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for further development. This
course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment course.
D173 - Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning - Using Educational Technology for Teaching and Learning is a key component
of WGU's professional core and is a required course for all Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This course presents strategies for integrating
technology into classroom practices to improve instruction and student learning according to the International Society for Technology in Education
(ISTE) standards. Candidates will evaluate digital tools and their potential classroom applications such as enhancing curriculum, enabling
communication with students and families, and increasing student engagement. Topics covered include ethics, equity and access to technology, and
appropriate use of technology by P–12 students. Assistive technologies to meet the needs of a diverse learner population also will be addressed. The
course will culminate in evidence-based, practical application of current standards, strategies, theories, or philosophical perspectives related to the use
of technology in teaching and learning. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experience that include virtual observations of classroom
practices incorporating technology to support educational goals. Crosscutting themes of technology and diversity are interwoven for further
development. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Assessing Student Learning course.
D174 - Marketing Management - Marketing Management examines foundational marketing concepts. Marketing is ever-present in our daily lives and
this course will help students understand how organizations use marketing activities to create value for their customers. Students will study the
strategic marketing planning process and the marketing mix of product, price, place, and promotion. Students will gain knowledge about the market
research process and how data are used to inform marketing decisions. Emphasis will be placed on ethical and sustainable marketing practices, along
with a focus on service marketing in today’s service economy. This course will provide students with a basic marketing understanding to prepare
them for specialized major courses.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 180
D175 - Consumer Behavior - Consumer Behavior examines the buying behavior of consumers in the marketplace. Students will gain knowledge of
consumer behavior theories and an understanding of how consumer behavior concepts apply to the consumer decision-making process. Students will
learn how consumer insights are gained through the exploration of external social and cultural influences such as reference groups, family, and
culture, as well as consumer influences such as needs, motivation, personality, and learning. The course also provides an interdisciplinary
perspective, including psychology, sociology, anthropology, and economics, to better evaluate and predict consumer behavior.
D176 - Content Marketing - Content Marketing examines how organizations create and distribute marketing communications to attract and retain
customers. Students will gain knowledge of the content planning process and how content marketing supports brand and organizational goals by
learning how to create, distribute, promote, and measure relevant and valuable content. Students will learn content ideation and will write compelling
copy that creates relationships with customers to build trust and enhance an organization’s reputation and authority.
D177 - Brand Management - Brand Management examines how brands provide value to both consumers and organizations. Brands are a part of a
consumer’s everyday life and organization’s strategically plan, measure, and manage brands. In this course, students will apply the strategic brand
management process using a customer-based brand equity model. Students will identify how brand strategies are used and how brand associations
are leveraged to create a competitive advantage. Brand equity measurement systems are explored, including brand audits and tracking studies that
use qualitative and quantitative brand research techniques. Students will construct a brand architecture strategy by identifying brand extension
opportunities to develop an appropriate branding strategy in a global marketplace. Reputation-management strategies and crisis management
techniques are also taught to assist in preserving and protecting an organization’s brand equity.
D178 - Marketing Strategy and Analytics - Marketing Strategy and Analytics is the capstone course for the marketing major. The course provides
students with the opportunity to demonstrate competencies developed throughout the program by engaging in the design, implementation, and
analysis of a marketing strategy. Students are given business scenarios using simulations and case studies to apply critical-thinking and decision-
making skills. Students will analyze the business environment and make decisions about market segmentation, buyer behavior, and the marketing
mix. Students will demonstrate the relationship between strategy and analytics by using marketing analytics to report marketing campaign results and
make recommendations. This course provides students with real-world application to prepare them for the marketing industry.
D179 - Data-Informed Practices - Data-Informed Practices focuses on the development of data literacy skills. This course teaches candidates about
the different types of data, the benefits and limitations of those data types, and how they can use data to identify and solve problems and inform
decisions. The course also teaches candidates how to locate, collect, and analyze data from relevant and credible sources, and how to draw
conclusions from data in order to drive continuous improvement. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D180 - Educational Research - Educational Research focuses on practical problem solving. This course teaches candidates to use scholarly
literature and current research to inform their own practice. It also empowers candidates to recognize opportunities for improvement and engage in
action research to systematically implement and evaluate changes. This course prepares candidates to conduct research for the capstone. Data-
Informed Practices is a prerequisite for this course.
D181 - MSCIN Capstone - The Master of Science in Curriculum and Instruction Capstone is the culminating course of the degree. It unites content
area knowledge with the completion of a research project or study. This course teaches candidates, under the guidance of program faculty, to apply
their data literacy and research skills to topics related to curriculum and instruction and to their career goals. Projects for this course include action
research or applied research through the necessary qualitative, quantitative, or mixed research methods. Prerequisites for this course include Data-
Informed Practices and Educational Research, as well as all prescribed courses in the candidates' area of study. Additionally, students wishing to add
the Capstone with fewer than eight weeks remaining in the term must receive permission from the Program Chair.
D182 - The Reflective Practitioner - The Reflective Practitioner defines what reflective teaching is and how accomplished teachers reflect
meaningfully on their pedagogical choices to improve their practice. During this course, candidates will examine their teaching to determine how they
can more effectively plan, facilitate, and evaluate learning. Candidates will also develop a professional growth plan and incorporate evidence-based
practices that support the achievement of their professional goals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D183 - Designing Curriculum and Instruction I - Designing Curriculum and Instruction I examines the influence that specific theories, design
principles, and evaluation models have on the quality and effectiveness of a curriculum. During the course, candidates will conduct a needs analysis in
order to determine the content that students need. The course requires candidates to learn how to define the scope and sequence of a curriculum to
ensure vertical and horizontal alignment. This course will also teach how to map curriculum to address any gaps or unnecessary duplication within and
across grade levels. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D184 - Standards-Based Assessment - Standards-Based Assessment teaches candidates how to unpack academic standards to determine the
essential learnings within the standards that should be assessed. This course teaches candidates how to determine, based on academic standards,
which topics should be assessed and how to use proficiency statements to create and score standards-based assessments. This course also
prepares candidates to analyze assessment data and develop a holistic assessment system for a specific subject and grade level. Differentiated
Instruction is a prerequisite for this course.
D185 - Designing Curriculum and Instruction II - Designing Curriculum and Instruction II examines commonly used curriculum and instructional
models and demonstrates how they can be used during the design process to achieve curricular and instructional goals. This course demonstrates
how to design curriculum and instruction that leverages digital tools to facilitate deep, authentic learning and provides strategies for ensuring
successful curriculum implementation. Designing Curriculum and Instruction I is a prerequisite for this course.
D186 - Learning as a Science - Learning as a Science examines how research from the field of learning sciences can be applied to improve teaching
and learning. This course explains how teachers can create a sense of community by examining personal biases and establishing a culturally inclusive
learning environment. The course also provides evidence-based strategies for improving motivation, increasing understanding and retention, and
teaching social-emotional skills that students need to be successful socially and academically. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D187 - Differentiated Instruction - Differentiated Instruction examines how the classroom environment and students’ readiness levels, interests, and
learning profiles influence learning. K–12 educators taking this course will acquire a deep understanding of their students in order to differentiate their
curriculum, instruction, and assessments in response to individual students’ needs. This course will allow students to also learn how to effectively
monitor and communicate students’ progress toward standards and adjust their practice as needed to empower students and nurture their abilities and
aptitudes. As a result of their learning in this course, K–12 teachers will be prepared to act as catalysts for differentiation within their schools and
districts. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D188 - The Collaborative Leader - The Collaborative Leader demonstrates strategies teacher leaders can use to collaborate with other
professionals, families, and communities to build strong relationships and improve school effectiveness. This course examines models of
collaboration and the benefits and challenges of collaboration. It also examines the characteristics of effective professional development and explains
how to collaboratively design effective professional development opportunities for educators. Finally, this course demonstrates how accomplished
teachers can build relationships with families and the community to create a positive learning experience for students. There are no prerequisites for
this course.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 181
D190 - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems introduces students to healthcare information technology as a
discipline. Focusing on evaluating health information systems and collecting data, students will learn the various roles and functions of the health
information manager in supporting the business of healthcare. This course introduces students to information technology as a discipline. This course
also exposes students to the various roles and functions of the health information manager in supporting the business of healthcare. Students will
learn through e-text readings, videos, case studies, several modules from LinkedIn Learning, knowledge checks, and unit quizzes. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D191 - Advanced Data Management - Advanced Data Management enables organizations to extract and analyze raw data. Skillful data
management allows organizations to discover and explore data in ways that uncover trends, issues, and their root causes. In turn, businesses are
better equipped to capitalize on opportunities and more accurately plan for the future. As organizations continue to extract larger and more detailed
volumes of data, the need is rapidly growing for IT professionals possessing data management skills. These skills include performing advanced
relational data modeling as well as designing data marts, lakes, and warehouses. This course will empower software developers with the skills to build
business logic at the database layer to employ more stability and higher data-processing speeds. Data analysts will gain the ability to automate
common tasks to summarize and integrate data as they prepare it for analysis. Data Management is a prerequisite for this course.
D192 - Data Systems Administration - Data System Administration provides students with foundational skills to become a Database Administrator
(DBA). This course illustrates how DBA’s ensure businesses are able to leverage significant data to increase profitability and support key business
functions. Topics include database management tools, account administration, recovery procedures, and maintenance through upgrades and
migrations.
D193 - Data and Information Governance - Data and Information Governance provides students with the knowledge that establishing rules of
engagement, policies, procedures, and data stewardship is essential to exercising organizational control over, and extracting maximum value from, its
data assets. Good data governance helps an organization lower costs, create efficiencies, and achieve its strategic goals and objectives. Data
governance provides a framework for properly managing information across the entire data lifecycle and establishes strategies in support of disaster
recovery and continuity of operations. This course will prepare IT professionals to assist their organization in the definition and implementation of best
practices related to the planning and implementation of managed systems that meet business, technical, security, auditing, disaster recovery, and
business continuity requirements.
D194 - IT Leadership Foundations - IT Leadership Foundations is an introductory course that provides students with an overview of organizational
structures, communication, and leadership styles specific to information technology in organizations. It also introduces students to some of the power
skills that help make successful IT professionals, including time management, problem solving, and emotional intelligence. Students in this course
explore their own strengths and passions in relation to the field. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D195 - Data Management/Analytics Undergraduate Capstone - The Data Management/Analytics Undergraduate Capstone challenges students to
demonstrate competencies supporting all BSDMDA program outcomes. Students will identify an organizational need, plan and develop a data
analytics product to serve that need, and document the process in a project proposal and data project report.
D196 - Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting - Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting provides students with an
introduction to the discipline of accounting and its context within the business environment. In this course, students will learn to differentiate between
financial, cost, and managerial accounting and where these accounting types fit into the business environment. This course will help students gain a
fundamental knowledge of the budgeting process, how to analyze basic financial statements, and how to use spreadsheets to analyze data. This
course provides students with a business generalist overview of the field of accounting and acts as a preview course for the accounting major.
D197 - Version Control - Version control is critical to maintaining software and enabling scalability solutions. A best practice for any programming
project that requires multiple files uses version control. Version control enables teams to have collaborative workflows and enhances the software
development lifecycle. This course introduces students to the basics of publishing, retrieving, branching, and cloning. There are no prerequisites for
this course.
D198 - Global Arts and Humanities - The Global Arts and Humanities course contains three modules with corresponding lessons. This course is an
invitation to see the world through the humanities, examine the humanities during the Information Age, and explore the global origins of music—
essentially questioning what makes us human, and how people are connected across culture and time. Each module includes learning opportunities
through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities to practice and check
learning. With no prior knowledge or experience, a learner can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D202 - Human Growth and Development - This is Human Growth and Development, a three-module course that examines the entire human lifetime,
from conception to death. Presented chronologically, the course focuses on three key areas: physical, cognitive, and psychosocial growth, along with
other important issues such as cultural influences, emotions, and resilience. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as
quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have
no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D204 - The Data Analytics Journey - The Data Analytics Journey gives an overview of the entire analytics life cycle. Learners gain fluency in data
analytics terminology, tools, and techniques. The course contextualizes the data analytics journey firmly with organizational metrics and requirements
to position graduates to answer key questions for businesses and other employers. This course has no prerequisites.
D205 - Data Acquisition - Data Acquisition builds proficiency in Structured Query Language (SQL) and the initial stages of the data analytics lifecycle.
The course introduces relational databases. Students gain concrete skills in data transference and database manipulation. There are no prerequisites.
D206 - Data Cleaning - Data Cleaning continues building proficiency in the data analytics life cycle with data preparation skills. This course addresses
exploring, transforming, and imputing data as well as handling outliers. Learners write code to manipulate, structure, and clean data as well as to
reduce features in data sets. The following courses are prerequisites: The Data Analytics Journey, and Data Acquisition.
D207 - Exploratory Data Analysis - Exploratory Data Analysis covers statistical principles supporting the data analytics life cycle. Students in this
course compute and interpret measures of central tendency, correlations, and variation. The course introduces hypothesis testing, focusing on
application for parametric tests, and addresses communication skills and tools to explain an analyst’s findings to others within an organization. Data
Cleaning is a required prerequisite for this course.
D208 - Predictive Modeling - Predictive Modeling builds on initial data preparation, cleaning, and analysis, enabling students to make assertions vital
to organizational needs. In this course, students conduct logistic regression and multiple regression to model the phenomena revealed by data. The
course covers normality, homoscedasticity, and significance, preparing students to communicate findings and the limitations of those findings
accurately to organizational leaders. Exploratory Data Analysis is a prerequisite for this course.
D209 - Data Mining I - Data Mining I expands predictive modeling into nonlinear dimensions, enhancing the capabilities and effectiveness of the data
analytics lifecycle. In this course, learners implement supervised models—specifically classification and prediction data mining models—to unearth
relationships among variables that are not apparent with more surface-level techniques. The course provides frameworks for assessing models’
sensitivity and specificity. D208 Predictive Modeling is a prerequisite to this course.
D210 - Representation and Reporting - Representation and Reporting focuses on communicating observations and patterns to diverse
stakeholders, a key aspect of the data analytics life cycle. This course helps students gain communication and storytelling skills. It also covers data
visualizations, audio representations, and interactive dashboards. The prerequisite for this course is Data Mining I.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 182
D211 - Advanced Data Acquisition - Advanced Data Acquisition enhances theoretical and SQL skills in furthering the data analytics life cycle. This
course covers advanced SQL operations, aggregating data, and acquiring data from various sources in support of core organizational needs. The
prerequisite for this course is Representation and Reporting.
D212 - Data Mining II - Data Mining II adds vital tools to data analytics arsenal that incorporates unsupervised models. This course explains when,
how, and why to use these tools to best meet organizational needs. The prerequisite for this course is Advanced Data Acquisition.
D213 - Advanced Data Analytics - Advanced Data Analytics prepares students for career-long growth in steadily advancing tools and techniques and
provides emerging concepts in data analysis. This course hones the mental and theoretical flexibility that will be required of analysts in the coming
decades while grounding their approach firmly in ethical and organizational-need-focused practice. Topics include machine learning, neural networks,
randomness, and unconventional data sources. Data Mining II is a prerequisite for this course.
D214 - Data Analytics Graduate Capstone - The Data Analytics Graduate Capstone allows students to apply the academic and professional abilities
developed as a graduate student. This capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from several program domains into one project.
Advanced Data Analytics is a prerequisite for this course.
D215 - Auditing - Auditing covers the entire auditing process. This course will help students gain an understanding of the different assurance
services, the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct, and the conceptual framework for members in public practice. The course will teach students how
to assess for audit risk, develop an audit strategy, and gain an understanding of the audit client. Audit evidence and a client’s system of internal control
will be discussed in depth. The course requires students to assess risk response by identifying and evaluating tests of controls and substantive
procedures. In addition, the course will have students evaluate risk response using data analytics and audit sampling for substantive tests. The course
concludes with the completion of the audit through subsequent events, engagement wrap-up and management representation, and reporting on the
audit with an unqualified audit report or a modification of the audit report. The prerequisites to this course are Intermediate Accounting I, II, and III,
Accounting Information Systems, and Business Law for Accountants.
D216 - Business Law for Accountants - Business Law for Accountants is designed to provide the advanced accounting student an understanding of
the legal environment and issues encountered in the profession. Topics include the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), contracts, securities regulation,
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, legal entities, ethics, agency, and bankruptcy. There are no prerequisites for the course.
D217 - Accounting Information Systems - Accounting Information Systems (AIS for short) introduces students to AIS, with particular emphasis on
the accountant’s role in management and financial reporting systems. Topics include transaction cycles and related information technology (IT)
controls, data management, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and e-commerce systems, systems development and acquisition, documentation,
and IT auditing. D103 Intermediate Accounting I and D104 Intermediate Accounting II are the prerequisites to this course.
D218 - Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional Growth - Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional Growth fosters the development of
professional identity. Building on the knowledge, skills, and attitudes gained through nursing practice, students in this course will explore the
relationship of theories, professional competencies, standards of leadership, education, and professionalism. The course content will cover
development of a nurse as a leader who is proficient in asserting control, influence, and power in professional and personal contexts.
D219 - Scholarship in Nursing Practice - Scholarship in Nursing Practice teaches students how to design and conduct research to answer important
questions about improving nursing practice and patient care delivery outcomes. This course introduces the basics of evidence-based practice, which
students are expected to implement throughout their clinical experiences. Students of this course will graduate with more competence and confidence
to become leaders in the healing environment.
D220 - Information Technology in Nursing Practice - Information Technology in Nursing Practice provides a basic overview of information
technology as it relates to the baccalaureate-prepared nurse. It is a foundational overview of nursing informatics with an emphasis on developing basic
competency. This course teaches students that nursing informatics synthesizes nursing science, information science, and computer science through
health applications to support decision-making in a dynamic healthcare environment. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as
prerequisites for this course.
D221 - Organizational Systems and Healthcare Transformation - Organizational Systems and Healthcare Transformation covers foundational
knowledge, skills, and attitudes toward organizational leadership within healthcare systems that can help students be successful. This course focuses
on the concepts of patient safety, improvement science, fiscal responsiveness, quality of care, value-based care, and patient-centered care. Additional
topics of quality science and innovation, systems redesign, and interprofessional roles assist the student in building necessary skills for healthcare
transformation. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D222 - Comprehensive Health Assessment - Comprehensive Health Assessment builds upon students’ existing knowledge of nursing assessment.
The course presents current and innovative assessment techniques of the physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual well-being of patients. Use of
assessment data and shared decision-making are discussed throughout the course. This course also outlines the concepts of a head-to-toe
assessment, providing students with an understanding of how to critically think about the different aspects of the assessment and analyze patient cues
to determine the implications of findings. Students will also analyze lifestyle and cultural implications of health. All prior courses in the sequence for
this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D223 - Healthcare Policy and Economics - Healthcare Policy and Economics is a foundational course that introduces the concepts of value-based
care and the role of the nurse. This course includes concepts related to financial responsiveness, shared decision-making, preference-sensitive care,
leveraging data. In this course, students learn about cost and fee-for-service in terms of value to the client and patient rather than value to the
healthcare system. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D224 - Global and Population Health - Global and Population Health prepares students for the role of the nurse in preserving and promoting health
among diverse populations. Additionally, basic principles of epidemiology, social determinants of health (SDOH), and resource allocation through
value-based care are outlined. The course introduces planning, organization, and delivery of services for diverse populations in community settings,
including illness prevention, disaster preparedness, and environmental health. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as
prerequisites for this course.
D225 - Emerging Professional Practice - Emerging Professional Practice presents a variety of professional nursing specialty areas. Students
explore various practice specialties, including palliative care, genetics and genomics, and others. The course provides pathways to specialized nursing
practice. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D226 - BSNU Capstone - The BSNU capstone is a synthesis of previously acquired knowledge, skills, and attitudes and requires students to
demonstrate competency in the program outcomes. Emphasis is placed on change facilitation in a healthcare setting, based in evidence and
incorporating value-based care. This course provides students with an opportunity to engage in a project that is actionable, relevant, highly
collaborative, and based on innovative thinking.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 183
D228 - Special Education Practices: Professional, Ethical and Legal Guidelines - Special Education Practices: Professional, Ethical and Legal
Guidelines prepares candidates to apply practice within ethical and legal guidelines in day-to-day teaching, stakeholder interactions, and other
complex situations. This course provides an overview of the professional ethics and standards from the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC), which
guide candidates to act in a professionally conscientious manner. This course also explores the transition planning requirements in IDEA, which
include development of an individualized transition plan and ensures that planning is initiated in elementary (such as from K to elementary), middle
school and continued through high school and post-secondary education. Candidates will explore the legal foundations and case laws related to
special education to gain understanding of how legislation influences teaching and learning. Candidates will advocate for improved outcomes for
students with exceptionalities and their families while addressing the unique needs of those with diverse social, cultural, and linguistic backgrounds.
Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experiences, which include an interview with a special educator to gain insight on how these topics
affect and inform teaching practice. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Essential Practices for Supporting Diverse
Learners.
D229 - Management Strategies for Academic and Social Behavior - Management Strategies for Academic and Social Behavior prepares
candidates to work effectively with students exhibiting behavior in the classroom that is below age and cultural norms. This course provides an
overview of behavior disorders and their causes, and appropriate research-based intervention strategies, including positive behavior intervention and
supports, multitiered systems of support (MTSS), applied behavior analysis, replacement behavior and reward strategies, culturally responsive
practices, and data collection and assessment methods. Candidates emerge prepared to strategize and recommend adjustments to the learning
environment that support positive behavior and student success in the classroom and beyond. This course also examines behavioral assessment and
analysis, including the creation of a functional behavior assessment (FBA) and the creation and monitoring of behavioral improvement plans (BIPs) in
an authentic learning environment. The candidates will determine effective strategies to promote active student engagement, increase student
motivation and opportunities to respond, and enhance self-regulation of student learning. This course is designed to be taken after successful
completion of Creating and Managing Engaging Learning Environments.
D230 - Assessment and Evaluation Procedures in Special Education - Assessment and Evaluation Procedures in Special Education prepares
candidates to use multiple methods of assessment and data sources in making educational decisions about the student and the learning environment.
This course is designed to help provide an understanding of how assessment data is used during screening in multitiered systems of support (MTSS),
the eligibility process, the evaluation process, progress monitoring, and data-based instructional decision making. Candidates analyze informal
assessments to determine how students access and demonstrate knowledge in the core curriculum. This course is designed to be taken by
candidates after they have completed Special Education Practices: Professional, Ethical, and Legal Guidelines.
D231 - Collaborative Techniques with Partners for Effective IEPs - Collaborative Techniques with Partners for Effective IEPs prepares candidates
to apply team processes and communication strategies to collaborate in a culturally responsive manner with families, paraeducators, and other
professionals (within the school, other educational settings, and the community) to plan programs and access services for students with
exceptionalities and their families. The course introduces ways to enhance parental involvement and family engagement while teaching families and
students advocacy throughout the Individualized Education Program (IEP) and transition planning processes. Candidates will develop plans for
transition services that focus on a coordinated set of student-centered activities designed to facilitate the student's movement from school to post-
school activities, including post-secondary education. This course also focuses on the components of the IEP and how the practice of effective
communication and collaboration skills is key to the program's development and implementation. The candidates will actively seek information from
and about families and take primary responsibility for maintaining respectful, ongoing, open communication to jointly identify and meet learning goals
that are informed by assessment data. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experiences that includes a simulated collaborative
experience in which skills learned can be applied. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Special Education Practices:
Professional, Ethical and Legal Guidelines.
D232 - Special Education Methods of Instruction and Intervention - Special Education Methods of Instruction and Intervention introduces
candidates to a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the learning of students with exceptionalities. The course focuses
specifically on strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions; making instructional decisions based on progress-monitoring
data; collaborating with general education teachers and paraeducators; teaching to mastery; promoting generalization of learning; and teaching
students with exceptionalities how to use self-assessment, problem solving, and other cognitive strategies to organize critical content and meet their
needs. This course will also focus on the interrelationship between curriculum, instruction, and assessment, with emphasis on the role of assessment
and student data in planning, designing, delivering, and modifying instruction in accordance with diverse learner needs. Candidates will know and
understand how learning occurs, how students construct knowledge, acquire skills, and develop disciplined thinking processes. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment, Mathematics Methods and Instruction for Students with
Mild/Moderate Disabilities, and Language Arts Instruction and Interventions.
D233 - Designing Instruction for Elementary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Designing Instruction for Elementary Learners
with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to use evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for elementary students
receiving special education services. The course includes cognitive and metacognitive strategies that elementary students can use to acquire new
content knowledge and generalize skills across learning environments. It also provides opportunities for candidates to incorporate intensive
instructional strategies and practice making accommodations to elementary math, reading, and language arts lesson plans based on learner
characteristics, performance data, and individualized education program (IEP) goals. In addition to discussing how to make appropriate
accommodations, the course teaches candidates how to assess student learning through progress monitoring and apply intensive interventions when
warranted. Candidates apply their understanding of academic subject content specifically focusing on reading, writing, and math curricula of the
general curriculum to inform instructional decisions for individual with exceptionalities. Candidates design appropriate learning and performance
accommodations and modifications for individuals with exceptional learning needs in academic subject matter content of the general curriculum
curricula. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Special Education Methods of Instruction and Intervention.
D234 - Designing Instruction for Secondary Learners with Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities - Designing Instruction for Secondary Learners with
Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities prepares candidates to use evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for use with secondary students
receiving special education services. Strategies taught in this course focus on intensive instruction and making accommodations to secondary lesson
plans in order to develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills to enhance acquisition of age-appropriate secondary content across academic
disciplines in math, reading and English/language arts. This course also promotes the achievement of Individualized Education Program (IEP) and
transition goals for independent living, post-secondary education and career preparation through demonstration of strategies that increase students'
self-awareness, self-regulation, self-management, self-control, and self-esteem. Because of the significant role that content specific subject matter
knowledge plays at the secondary level, candidates will demonstrate a solid understanding of the subject matter content specifically focusing on math,
reading, English/language arts to sufficiently assure that students with exceptionalities can meet state curriculum standards. Candidates design
appropriate learning and performance accommodations and modifications for individuals with exceptional learning needs in academic subject matter
content of the general curriculum. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 184
D235 - Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare - Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare is
designed to help students prepare for success in the online environment at Western Governors University and beyond. Student success starts with the
social support and self-reflective awareness that will prepare them to handle the challenges of all academic programs. In this course, students will
participate in group activities and complete several individual assignments. The group activities are aimed at finding support and gaining insight from
other students. The assignments are intended to give the student an opportunity to reflect on where they are and where they would like to be. The
activities in each group meeting are designed to give students several tools they can use to achieve success. This course is designed as a four-part
intensive learning experience. Students will attend six group meetings during the term. At each meeting, students will engage in activities that will help
them understand their own educational journey and find support and inspiration in the journey of others. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D236 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is an overview of the pathology and treatment of diseases in the human body, tissues, glands and
membranes, the integumentary system, the sensory system, skeletal and muscular systems, the digestive system, blood, vessels and circulation,
lymphatic system, immunity and disease, heart and respiratory system, nervous, urinary and endocrine systems, and male and female reproductive
systems. Prerequisites include all prior courses in this programmatic sequence.
D237 - Mathematics Methods and Instruction for Students with Mild/Moderate Exceptionalities - Mathematics Methods and Instruction for
Students with Mild/Moderate Exceptionalities helps candidates learn how to implement effective math instruction in today’s diverse classrooms in both
the elementary and secondary settings. Topics include differentiated math instruction, mathematical communication, mathematical tools for instruction,
assessing math understanding, integrating math across the curriculum, critical thinking development, standards-based mathematics instruction, and
mathematical models and representation for students with mild to moderate exceptionalities.
D238 - Preclinical Experiences in Special Education - Pre-Clinical Experiences in Special Education provides candidates the opportunity to
observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an
effective teacher. Candidates will reflect on and document the 75 hours of in-classroom observation and experience in their performance
assessments. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, candidates will be required to include a cleared background check, passing scores
on the state or WGU required basic skills exam and a completed resume.
D239 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs
1 and 2 involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance
data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D240 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special
Education, Obs 3 and Midterm involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D241 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs
4 and 5 involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance
data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D242 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education, Obs 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Special Education,
Obs 6 and Final involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive
performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
D243 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education - Teacher Performance Assessment in Special Education course is a culmination
of the wide variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher,
you will showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills.
D244 - Disciplinary Literacy - Disciplinary Literacy examines teaching strategies designed to help candidates to develop the literacy skills necessary
to read, write, and think critically while engaging content in different academic disciplines. Course content highlights strategies to help candidates
distinguish between the unique characteristics of informational texts while improving comprehension and writing proficiency across the curriculum.
Strategies to encourage inquiry and cultivate skills in critical thinking, collaboration, and creativity also are addressed. This course is designed to be
taken after successful completion of the Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment course OR Introduction to Instructional Planning and
Presentation AND Instructional Planning and Presentation in Special Education.
D245 - Cohort Seminar in Special Education - Cohort Seminar in Special Education provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during
their demonstration teaching period by providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates
their demonstration of competence in becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom,
exploring community resources, building collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
D250 - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting provides learners with the skills and knowledge required
to practice accounting for governmental and nonprofit entities: analyzing and recording transactions, financial statement preparation in accordance
with Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standards, and communication.
D251 - Advanced Auditing - Advanced Auditing reviews basic auditing concepts, including (1) planning the audit: identifying, assessing, and
responding to the risk of material misstatement; (2) specialized audit tools: attributes sampling, monetary unit sampling, and data analytic tools; (3)
completing a quality audit; and (4) reporting on financial statement audits. The second part of the course dives into an application of auditing through
(1) understanding how to audit an acquisition and payment cycle and (2) applying the knowledge learned through the acquisition and payment cycle to
the revenue cycle in a performance assessment.
D252 - Accounting Research and Critical Thinking - Accounting Research and Critical Thinking provides learners the skills and knowledge to
research and add validity to accounting reports, resolution of issues, and procedural arguments: critical thinking, communication, research strategies,
and database resources.
D253 - Values-Based Leadership - Values-Based Leadership guides students to learn by reflection, design, and scenario planning. Through a
combination of theory, reflection, value alignment, and practice, the course helps students examine and understand values-based leadership and
explore foundations in creating a culture of care. In this course, students are given the opportunity to identify and define their personal values through
an assessment and reflection process. Students then evaluate business cases to practice mapping the influence of values on their own leadership. In
this course, students also participate in scenario planning, where they can practice implementing their values in their daily routine (i.e., behaviors) and
then in a leadership setting. The course illustrates how values-driven leadership is used in goal setting as well as problem-solving at an organizational
level. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D254 - Introduction to Medical Coding - Introduction to Medical Coding provides students with the foundation for translating medical terminology
into correct diagnosis and procedure codes. The course focuses on how diagnosis and procedure codes are used to accurately document medical
records and inform accurate medical billing. This course introduces the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT), International Classification of Diseases
(ICD-10-CM), ICD-10-PCS, and Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code sets as well as ethical considerations throughout
processes in medical coding. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D255 - Professional Practice Experience I: Technical - The PPE I: Technical course allows you to use EHRGo, an electronic health record (EHR),
to complete 42 structured activities to experience how an HIM professional uses an EHR. The selected activities meet AHIMA's Baccalaureate level
competencies and by completing them you will earn 40 PPE hours.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 185
D256 - Principles of Management in Health Information Management - Principles of Management in HIM provides an introductory look at the
discipline of management and its context within the health information management environment. This course provides an overview of management
and leadership, management functions, human resource management, and communication strategies. The course gives students an opportunity to
analyze how leadership and management principles are used to achieve department goals. This course has no prerequisites.
D257 - Healthcare Project Management - Healthcare Project Management provides students with a comprehensive foundation for project
management. The course focuses on project management methodologies, process improvement analysis, business case proposals, and creating
project planning documents for health information management (HIM) projects. This course will prepare students to determine project scope and
timelines, complete interdepartmental stakeholder analysis, identify project resources, examine constraints and risks, and contribute to positive project
communication.
D258 - Organizational Leadership in Healthcare - Organizational Leadership in Healthcare provides students with an overview of the principles and
practices leaders need in healthcare environments. The course focuses on organizational leadership theory, behaviors, culture, and teamwork. This
course prepares students to apply leadership theories, principles of organizational culture development, techniques for building and leading teams,
and conflict resolution strategies to support organizational goals. This course has no prerequisites.
D259 - Professional Practice Experience II: Management - The PPE II: Management course allows you to experience your future profession at the
supervisory level. Any site where health information is used and you can be mentored by a department or facility manager is appropriate for PPE II.
D260 - Health Information Management Capstone - The Health Information Management Capstone is the culmination of the student's degree
program. The course is an opportunity for students to do an environmental scan focusing specifically on emerging issues and trends in the field of
health information management (HIM) and to apply knowledge learned throughout the program to the problems and issues facing HIM professionals.
The student will also develop a professional and educational development plan. At the end of the course, the student will complete an RHIA practice
exam.
D265 - Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence - In this course you will learn key critical thinking concepts and how to apply them in the analysis
and evaluation of reasons and evidence. The course examines the basic components of an argument, the credibility of evidence sources, the impact
of bias, and how to construct an argument that provides good support for a claim. The course consists of an introduction and four major sections. Each
section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also
provide opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you understand course content. Because the course is self-paced, you may
move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain proficiency in the four competencies that will be covered in the final
assessment. If you have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D266 - World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections - This is World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections. In this course,
you will focus on three main topics—cultural and religious diversity; pandemics; and the relationship of empires and nation states—as well as the skills
of identifying root causes, explaining causes and effects, and analyzing complex systems. This course consists of an introduction and four major
sections. Each section includes learning opportunities through reading, images, videos, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with
feedback also provide opportunities to practice and check how well you understand the content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move
through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final
assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D268 - Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others - Welcome to Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others! It may
seem like common knowledge that communication skills are important, and that communicating with others is inescapable in our everyday lives. While
this may appear simplistic, the study of communication is actually complex, dynamic, and multifaceted. Strong communication skills are invaluable to
strengthening a multitude of aspects of life. Specifically, this course will focus on communication in the professional setting, and present material from
multiple vantage points, including communicating with others in a variety of contexts, across situations, and with diverse populations. Upon
completion, you will have a deeper understanding of both your own and others’ communication behaviors, and a toolbox of effective behaviors to
enhance your experience in the workplace.
D269 - Composition: Writing with a Strategy - Welcome to Composition I: Writing with a Strategy! In this course, you will focus on three main topics:
writing strategies, writing style, format and grammar, and editing and revising text. This course consists of an introduction and five sections aligned to
the three main topics. The sections address understanding purpose and audience, writing strategies and techniques, format, style, structure, and
grammar, editing and revision strategies, and constructive feedback. Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and
other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you
understand course content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain
proficiency in the five competencies that will be covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to
spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D270 - Composition: Successful Self-Expression - Welcome to Composition: Successful Self-Expression! In this course, you will focus on three
main topics: writing in the workplace, support with resources, and writing an appropriate message. This course consists of an introduction and seven
sections aligned to the three main topics. The sections address cross-cultural communication, professional writing, valid and reliable sources,
references, supporting a position, communication approaches, and self-expression. Each section includes learning opportunities through readings,
videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show
how well you understand course content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to
gain proficiency in the seven competencies that will be covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect
to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D307 - Educational Psychology and Human Development of Children and Adolescents - Educational Psychology and Human Development of
Children and Adolescents is a key component of WGU’s Professional Core and is a required course for all Master of Arts in Teaching candidates. This
course introduces candidates to research-validated theories of human development and psychology, spanning from early childhood through
adolescence, and their applications in teaching practice. Candidates will explore how linguistic, physical, cognitive, and social development influence
the learning process and inform educational approaches. This course will also cover appropriate instructional and assessment strategies that can be
used to support learning for developmentally diverse student populations. The course will culminate in analysis of learning theories related to
educational psychology in order to develop a personal educational philosophy. Candidates will engage in four hours of preclinical experiences, which
include virtual classroom observations from the perspective of educational psychology and learner development. Cross-cutting themes of technology
and diversity are interwoven for further development. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the Foundations of Education
course.
D309 - Data Wrangling - This course elaborates on concepts covered in Introduction to Data Science, helping to develop skills crucial to the field of
data science and analysis. It explores how to wrangle data from diverse sources and shape it to enable data-driven applications—a common activity in
many data scientists' routine. Topics covered include gathering and extracting data from widely-used data formats, assessing the quality of data, and
exploring best practices for data cleaning.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 186
D311 - Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach - Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach explores the science that
microorganisms are everywhere, and they have positive and negative effects on the community. The course examines the structure and function of
microorganisms, disease transmission and progression, and immune responses and other interventions, and it identifies key global diseases. The
course consists of an introduction and four major sections. Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, and other relevant
resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities for students to check their learning, practice, and show how well they
understand course content. To assist students in developing an applied, evidence-based understanding of microbiology, this course integrates several
lab experiments to help determine the specific characteristic of an unknown microbial sample and a treatment plan. Because the course is self-paced,
students may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as needed to gain proficiency in the four competencies that will be covered in the final
assessment. Students who have no prior knowledge of or experience with this topic can expect to spend 48–60 hours on the course content. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D312 - Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab - This is Anatomy and Physiology I, a six-section, 4 CEU course that enables students to develop an
understanding of the relationships between the structures and function of the integumentary, skeletal, muscular, nervous and endocrine systems in the
human body. This course will involve laboratory activities, simulated dissections, textbook material, models, and diagrams.
Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating
proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 40–60
hours on the course content.
D313 - Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab - This is Anatomy and Physiology II, a six section, four CEU course that enables students to develop an
understanding of the relationships between the structures and functions of the cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, urinary, reproductive, and
lymphatic systems in the human body. This course will involve laboratory activities, simulated dissections, textbook material, models, and diagrams.
Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating
proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 40–60
hours on the course content.
D314 - Essentials of Academic Writing - The learner will explore professional communication by applying the principles of academic writing to their
discipline. Learners will incorporate these skills into the development of an evidence-based scholarly paper in their specialty area. As learners develop
a scholarly paper, they will acquire a deeper understanding of the research topic selected and analyze whether initiatives and interventions have been
effective or ineffective.
D361 - Business Simulation - This course ties together all the skills and knowledge covered in the business courses and allows the student to prove
their mastery of the competencies by applying them in a simulated business environment. This course will help take the student's knowledge and skills
from the theoretical to applicable.
DPT1 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves, focusing on such topics as electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism, electromagnetic
induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
DPT2 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves. This course will focus on such topics as electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism,
electromagnetic induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
DWP2 - Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods - Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods helps students learn how to
implement effective social studies instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include social studies themes, promotion of cultural diversity,
integrated social studies across the curriculum, social studies learning environments, assessment of social studies understanding, differentiated
instruction for social studies, technology for social studies instruction, and standards-based social studies instruction. This course helps students
apply, analyze, and reflect on effective elementary social studies instruction. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of
Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment OR Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
DZP2 - Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods - Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods helps
students learn how to implement effective visual and performing arts instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include integrating arts across the
curriculum, music education, visual arts, dance and movement, dramatic arts, differentiated instruction for visual and performing arts, and the
promotion of cultural diversity through visual and performing arts instruction. This course helps students apply, analyze, and reflect on effective
elementary visual and performing arts instruction. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum,
Instruction, and Assessment OR Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
EBP2 - Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods - Applications of Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods
helps students learn how to implement effective physical and health education instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include healthy
lifestyles, student safety, student nutrition, physical education, differentiated instruction for physical and health education, physical education across
the curriculum, and public policy in health and physical education. This course helps students apply, analyze, and reflect on effective elementary visual
and performing arts instruction. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of Introduction to Curriculum, Instruction, and
Assessment OR Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education.
ELO1 - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL integrates aspects of pedagogy, assessment, and professionalism in
English Language Learning (ELL). A student develops and assesses aspects of language curriculum development including second language
instruction, methods of second language assessment, and legal policy issues.
FEA1 - Field Experience for ELL - Field Experience for ELL is the field experience component of the English Language Learning program. In this
experience, students are required to complete a minimum of 15 hours of video observations for both elementary and secondary levels. Additionally, a
supervised teaching experience that is face-to-face with English language learners (ELL) according to the minimum time requirements of the student's
state is required. The purpose of this course is to assess the ability of students, including their engagement in field experience activities, ability to
reflect on and then plan standards-based instruction in ELL, and their ability to locate and effectively use resources for teaching ELL to meet the needs
of their individual learners.
HMP1 - Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management - Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management guides students in applying their
knowledge of human resource management by completing a case study. Students will apply critical human resource strategies in the areas of
legal/regulatory compliance, recruitment and selection of personnel, performance and feedback mechanisms, and financial and benefits
compensation.
IDC1 - Foundations of Instructional Design - Foundations of Instructional Design provides an overview of how to select the most appropriate
learning theories, design processes, and instructional strategies based on learner audience, instructional setting, and current and desired state of
learning.
JNT2 - Instructional Design Analysis - Instructional Design Analysis focuses on using analysis of needs to determine the needs and interests of
learners and scope and sequence for developing a logical approach for an education program with appropriate and measurable objectives.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 187
JOT2 - Issues in Instructional Design - Issues in Instructional Design focuses on learning theories, learner analysis, scope and sequence,
instructional strategies, task analysis and design theories, media and technology foundations, and adaptive technologies for special populations for
creating effective, well-articulated, and efficient instruction.
JPT2 - Instructional Design Production - Instructional Design Production focuses on the application of a systematic process of instructional design,
namely the concepts and procedures for analyzing and designing successful instruction. This course will prepare students to conduct a goal analysis,
which is used to identify instructional goals, as well as a task analysis, which is used to determine the skills and knowledge required to accomplish
those goals. This course also focuses on writing performance objectives, designing assessments, and developing instruction that incorporates relevant
learning theories. Methods for formatively evaluating a unit of instruction are also introduced. There are no prerequisites for this course.
JQT2 - Issues in Measurement and Evaluation - Issues in Measurement and Evaluation focuses on the understanding of formative and summative
evaluation and quantitative and qualitative data collection tools, including rubrics and the processes of evaluation.
JRT2 - Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation - Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation focuses on using qualitative and quantitative
data collection tools and techniques to construct and evaluate valid and reliable measuring instruments.
JST2 - Evaluation Process and Recommendation - Evaluation Process and Recommendation focuses on implementing and interpreting a formative
evaluation and reporting results and recommendations to stakeholders.
LPA1 - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition focuses on describing and understanding
language and the development of language. It includes the study of acquisition theory, error correction strategies, and applied phonology.
LZT2 - Power, Influence and Leadership - Power, Influence, and Leadership focuses on the development of the critical leadership and soft skills
necessary for success in information technology leadership and management. The course focuses specifically on skills such as cultivating effective
leadership communication, building personal influence, enhancing emotional intelligence (soft skills), generating ideas and encouraging idea
generation in others, resolving conflicts, and positioning oneself as an influential change agent within different organizational cultures. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
MBT2 - Technological Globalization - Technological Globalization explores information and communication technologies used to meet business
needs in global markets. IT executives must analyze their organization’s technological needs, develop internationally-capable strategic plans, and
mitigate the operational challenges of each of the countries in which the organization does business. This course provides students with the practical
knowledge and understanding of how to plan, evaluate, and successfully integrate effective and efficient technical communication solutions in the
global business market. This course has no prerequisites.
MEC1 - Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation - Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation focuses on assessment validity, constructing
reliable test instruments, identifying appropriate item and instrument types, qualitative data collection tools and techniques, and conducting a formative
and summative evaluation for an instructional product or program.
MFT2 - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense: Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Defense focuses on a
formal presentation. The student will present an overview of their teacher work sample (TWS) portfolio discussing the challenges they faced and how
they determined whether their goals were accomplished. They will explain the process they went through to develop the TWS portfolio and reflect on
the methodologies and outcomes of the strategies discussed in the TWS portfolio. Additionally, they will discuss the strengths and weaknesses of
those strategies and how they can apply what they learned from the TWS portfolio in their professional work environment.
MGT2 - IT Project Management - IT Project Management provides an overview of the Project Management Institute’s project management
methodology. Topics cover various process groups and knowledge areas and application of knowledge in case studies for planning a project that has
not started yet and monitoring/controlling a project that is already underway.
MMT2 - IT Strategic Solutions - IT Strategic Solutions guides students in identifying strategic opportunities and emerging technologies through
research and deciding on a system to support a growing company. Topics will include technology strategy; gap analysis; researching new technology;
strengths, opportunities, weaknesses, and threats; ethics; risk mitigation; data security, communication plans; and globalization.
NMA1 - Professional Role of the ELL Teacher - The Professional Role of the ELL Teacher focuses on issues of professionalism for the English
Language Learning teacher and leader. This includes program development, ethics, engagement in professional organizations, serving as a resource,
and ELL advocacy.
NNA1 - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction focuses on a variety of philosophies and
grade levels of English Language Learner (ELL) instruction. It includes the study of ELL listening and speaking, ELL reading and writing, specially
designed academic instruction in English (SDAIE), and specific issues for various grade level instruction.
OOT2 - Mathematics History and Technology - In Math History and Teaching, students will learn about a variety of technological tools for doing
mathematics and develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. Mathematics is a very human subject that comes from
the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change as well as the micro-level actions of individuals with personal, professional, and philosophical
motivations. This course will focus on the historical development of mathematics, including contributions of significant figures and diverse cultures.
Students will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and historical information to create an enriching student-centered mathematical learning
environment.
OPT2 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help students develop the knowledge and skills necessary
to become a prospective and practicing educator. This course will help students use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the
learning of mathematics. It focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and instructional planning, with methods based on
research and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an
effective secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
PFIT - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement is designed to help the learner
complete the culminating Undergraduate Business Portfolio assessment; it focuses on developing a business portfolio containing a strengths essay, a
career report, a reflection essay, a resume, and exhibits that support one’s strengths in the work place.
QDT1 - Abstract Algebra - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual underpinnings, common misconceptions,
appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and assess the learning of geometry. Secondary teachers in this course will
develop a deep understanding of constructions and transformations, congruence and similarity, analytic geometry, solid geometry, conics,
trigonometry, and the historical development of content. Calculus I and College Geometry are prerequisites for this course.
QDT2 - Abstract Algebra - Abstract Algebra is the axiomatic and rigorous study of the underlying structure of algebra and arithmetic. It covers the
knowledge and skills necessary to understand, apply, and prove theorems about numbers, groups, rings, and fields. Topics include the well-ordering
principle, equivalence classes, the division algorithm, Euclid's algorithm, prime factorization, greatest common divisor, least common multiple,
congruence, the Chinese remainder theorem, modular arithmetic, rings, integral domains, fields, groups, roots of unity, and homomorphisms. Linear
Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
QET1 - Business - HR Management Capstone Project - For the Business - HR Management Capstone Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that offers HR products or services. The business plan includes a
market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to the chosen company.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 188
QFT1 - Business - IT Management Capstone Project - The capstone requires students to demonstrate the integration and synthesis of
competencies in all domains required for the degree in Information Technology Management. The student produces a business plan for a start-up
company that is selected and approved by the student and mentor.
QGT1 - Business Management Capstone Written Project - For the Business Management Capstone Written Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that plans to sell a product or service in a local market, national
market, or on the Internet. The business plan includes a market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to
the chosen company.
QHT1 - Business Management Tasks - Business Management Tasks addresses important concepts needed to effectively manage a business.
Topics include understanding the cost-quality relationship, using various types of graphical charts in operations management, managing innovation,
and developing strategies for working with individuals and groups.
QJT2 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use
differential calculus of one variable and appropriate technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains
and ranges; limits, continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and
sum rules applied to polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Candidates should have completed a course in
Pre-Calculus before engaging in this course.
QTT2 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations, prime and composite numbers, greatest common divisor and least
common multiple, order of operations, ordering numbers, and mathematical systems. These systems include modular arithmetic; arithmetic and
geometric sequences; ratio and proportion; subsets of real numbers; logic and truth tables; graphs, trees, and networks; and permutation and
combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
RKT1 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three- or higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use technology to model and solve
real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector representation
Ax=b; row reduction; linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection); matrix operations matrix inverses and
invertible matrix characterizations; computing determinants; relating determinants to area and volume; and axiomatic and intuitive definitions of vector
spaces and subspaces; and proving theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus II are prerequisites for this course.
RKT2 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use appropriate technology to
model and solve real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector
representation Ax=b, row reduction, linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection), matrix operations,
matrix inverses and invertible matrix characterizations, computing determinants, relating determinants to area and volume, and axiomatic and intuitive
definitions of vector spaces and subspaces and how to prove theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus II are prerequisites for this
course.
RNT1 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics,
and electricity and magnetism. and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
RNT2 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics,
and electricity and magnetism and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
RXT2 - Precalculus and Calculus - Precalculus and Calculus provides instruction in precalculus and calculus and applies them to examples found in
both mathematics and science. Topics in precalculus include principles of trigonometry, mathematical modeling, and logarithmic, exponential,
polynomial, and rational functions. Topics in calculus include conceptual knowledge of limit, continuity, differentiability, and integration.
SLO1 - Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar - Theories of Second Language Learning Acquisition and Grammar covers
content material in applied linguistics, including morphology, syntax, semantics, and grammar. Students will explore the role of dialect in the
classroom, the connections between language and culture, and the theories of first and second language acquisition.
TAT2 - Technology Production - Technology production focuses on the foundation of media and technology, integrated technology development, the
integration of technology into appropriate instructional uses of productivity, and applying different research applications in the learning environment.
TDT1 - Technology Design Portfolio - Technology Design Portfolio focuses on gaining a broad overview of the field of technology integration with a
fundamental understanding of some key concepts and principles, and enhancing technology skills to enable the producing of exportable instructional
and professional products using various integrated application programs.
TET1 - Issues in Technology Integration - Issues in Technology Integration focuses on the legal and ethical practice of technology, some personal
uses of electronic resources, the need for protection of information, the foundations of media and technology, what electronic learning communities
are, and adaptive technologies for special populations.
TOC2 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data, including representations, constructions, and interpretation of graphical displays (e.g., box
plots, histograms, cumulative frequency plots, scatter plots). Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. College Algebra is a prerequisite to this
course.
TQC1 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data and includes statistical variability and its sources and the role of randomness in statistical inference. Topics
include discrete and continuous random variables; expected values; the Central Limit Theorem; the identification of unusual samples; population
parameters; point estimates; confidence intervals; influences on accuracy and precision; hypothesis testing; and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion,
one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation). Calculus II and Probability and Statistics I are
prerequisites for this course.
TQC2 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data and includes statistical variability and its sources and the role of randomness in statistical inference. Topics
include discrete and continuous random variables, expected values, the central limit theorem, the identification of unusual samples, population
parameters, point estimates, confidence intervals, influences on accuracy and precision, hypothesis testing and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion,
one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation). Calculus II and Probability and Stats I are prerequisites to
this course.
UQT1 - Organic Chemistry - This course focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize and
group these compounds based on common bonds found within them in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity.
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 189
VZT1 - Marketing Applications - Marketing Applications allows students to apply their knowledge of core marketing principles by creating a
comprehensive marketing plan. The plan will apply knowledge of the marketing planning process, market analysis, and the marketing mix (product,
place, promotion, and price).
© Western Governors University 12/27/21 190
Instructor Directory
General Education
Adair, Rodger; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Adams, William; MA, Savannah College of Art & Design
Alexander, Ledora; EdS, Walden University
Alt, Andrea; Doctorate Degree, University of Northern Colorado
Altheimer-Bienemy, Keelia; Doctorate Degree, University of Southern Mississippi
Anger, Carly; PhD, Marquette University
Askinosie, Scott; PhD, University of Missouri
Ballone, Frank; PhD, Ohio University
Barford, Mary; PhD, Purdue University
Barnes, Lori; PhD, West Virginia University
Battistelli, Todd; PhD, University of Texas at Austin
Baty, Amanda; PhD, Texas Tech University
Bearry, Brian; PhD, University of North Texas
Beedle, Thanh; Doctorate Degree, Washington State University
Bendall, Gareth; PhD, University of Kentucky
Benson, Bryan; PhD, Boston College
Bilbrey, Joshua; PhD, Texas State University
Biroschak, Bart; Specialist Degree, University of Cincinnati
Bissler, Mark; PhD, Kent State University
Black, Hilda; PhD, Louisiana Tech University
Borden, Anne; PhD, Emory University
Bradley, Stephen; Doctorate Degree, University of Idaho
Brewer, Craig; PhD, University of Notre Dame
Brown, Bonnie; PhD, Stephen F. Austin State University
Brown, Carrie; PhD, Saint Louis University
Brown, Jessica; Doctorate Degree, Texas Tech University
Browning, Ellen; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Bruce, Amanda; Doctorate Degree, Stony Brook University
Buchanan, Tenielle; EdD, Lipscomb University
Burch, Tanya; PhD, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill
Burrichter, Vicki; DMA, University of Northern Colorado
Byrnes, Sean; PhD, Emory University
Califano, Joanne; MS, Nazareth College of Rochester, NY
Carper, David; PhD, Yale University
Carrier, Rebecca; PhD, University of Illinois
Castaneda, Gilivaldo; MEd, University of Texas at San Antonio
Cathell, Alicia; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Chakraborty, Suparna; PhD, Purdue University
Chaves Ulloa, Ramsa; PhD, Dartmouth College
Chevalier, Dorene; MEd, Anna Maria College
Chittick, Sharla; PhD, University of Stirling
Cowan, Christy; PhD, University of South Carolina
Crawford, Nathan; PhD, University of Tennessee
Crooks, Kathleen; PhD, University of Akron
Crookston, Andrew; PhD, Washington State University
Cutler, Shane; PhD, Duke University
DeFlorio, Reagan; PhD, University of Illinois at Chicago
DeLair, Barbra; Master's Degree, Arizona State University
Dempster, Wesley; PhD, Bowling Green State University
Dillon, Jeanette; PhD, Bowling Green State University
Dodge, Joshua; MA, University of Central Florida
Dorre, Gina; PhD, Tulane University
Douglas, Katherine; PhD, University of California San Diego
Doyle, Michael; PhD, Kent State University
Dungar, Michael; MA, Boston College
Edmunds, Jeffrey; PhD, University of Arizona
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 191
Eskridge, Katie; Doctorate Degree, Louisiana State University
Evenson Newhouse, Ranae; PhD, Vanderbilt University
Everett, Amy; PhD, University of Alabama
Fehnel, Bradley; MS, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Fisher, Alyssa; Doctorate Degree, Bowling Green State University
Francis, Katherine; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Franco, Heidi; PhD, University of Utah
Galindez, Dahlia; MA, Western Governors University
Gbur, Robin; PhD, University of New Mexico
Geppi, Denna; Doctorate Degree, Howard University
Gleason, Christine; Doctorate Degree, George Mason University
Goodwin, Rachel; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Gravitte, Kristen; PhD, University of Tulsa
Groner, Matt; MFA, Bennington College
Gumaer, Dennis; PhD, University of California Riverside
Halula, Stephen; PhD, Marquette University
Hann, Nichelle; PhD, University of Florida
Harney, Isaiah; PhD, University of Kentucky
Harris, Meagan; PhD, Texas A&M University
Harris, Steven; PhD, Indiana University Bloomington
Hayne, Victoria; PhD, University of California, Los Angeles
Hibbard, Brandon; Doctorate Degree, Eastern Kentucky University
Hildebrandt, Jill; PhD, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Hillyer, Aaron; PhD, University of Nebraska
Hoar, Bob; Doctorate Degree, Montana State University
Hodgess, Erin; PhD, Temple University
Hoffman, John; PhD, Kent State University
Horne, Lisa; MA, Brigham Young University
Hurley, Norman; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Jackson, Patrick; ABD, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Jamous, Sara; PhD, Arizona State University
Jensen, Taylor; PhD, Montana State University
Jesse, Odin; PhD, Texas Tech University
Jeune, Megan; Doctorate Degree, Illinois State University
Johnson, Cassandra; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Johnson, Jocelyn; Master's Degree, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Johnson, Kristi; PhD, Louisiana State University
Johnson, Sarah; PhD, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Johnson, Stephanie; MBA, Alabama A&M University
Jones, Lee; PhD, Clark Atlanta University
Kalikanda, Jane; PhD, Binghamton University
Kasper, Gwendolyn; MA, Western Governors University
Kelly, Lynn; EdD, Argosy University
Kim, Doe; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Kim, Mijung; PhD, Ohio State University
King, Jeffrey; Doctorate Degree, University of Northern Colorado
Kmetz, Richard; Doctorate Degree, University of Nevada
Knapp-Witt, Amanda; EdS, Marshall University
Knieps, Linda; PhD, Vanderbuilt University
Knous, Melissa; PhD, Texas A&M University Commerce
Krisuk, Jennifer; PhD, University of Tulsa
Ku, Yu; PhD, Northcentral University
Landry, Stan; PhD, University of Arizona
Latham, Kary; PhD, University of Tennessee
Lathers, Heather; PhD, Case Western Reserve University
Leep, Matthew; PhD, University of Connecticut
Lettau, Lisa; PhD, University of Delaware
Licursi, Kimberly; PhD, University at Albany
Lopez, Raquel; Doctorate Degree, Arizona State University
Louis, Anitra; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 192
Lukin, Kara; PhD, University of Colorado
Madden, Daniel; MA, Eastern Kentucky University
Maestri, Melissa; PhD, University of Delaware
Mammen, John; EdD, University of Phoenix
Markakis, Mary; Doctorate Degree, George Mason University
Mays Yahl, Ashley; PhD, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
McCune, Timothy; PhD, Southern Illinois University
McDonald, Aaron; Master's Degree, University of Utah
McWatters, Mason; PhD, University of Texas at Austin
Melnikova, Yuliya; PhD, Texas State University - San Marcos
Metzger, Christopher; PhD, University of South Florida
Meyer, Nicolas; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Miller, Don-Ricardo; PhD, Morehouse School of Medicine
Moody, Vivian; PhD, University of Georgia
Mosgrove, Sharon; PhD, University of Iowa
Muhovich, Edward; PhD, University of Denver
Murphy, Jillmarie; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Murphy, Ryan; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri
Nader, Martin; PhD, University of Nebraska
Nash, LeAnn; PhD, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Nicley, Erinn; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois
Overmyer, Gerald; PhD, Colorado State University
Palmer, Michael; PhD, Texas Tech University
Parker, Allison; MFA, University of North Carolina at Wilmington
Parker, Chasta; Doctorate Degree, University of South Carolina-Columbia
Parker, Debra; PhD, Illinois State University
Parrish, Anca; PhD, University of Memphis
Parton, Sabrena; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Parvin, Kathleen; PhD, Purdue University
Pattman, Candace; Doctorate Degree, Concordia University
Potter, Christine; PhD, University of Iowa
Prawat, Xueying; Doctorate Degree, Michigan State University
Przygrodzki, Robert; PhD, Northern Illinois University
Quintela, Melissa; PhD, Indiana University
Redkey, Elizabeth; PhD, University at Albany, State University of New York
Reid, Ben; PhD, University of Oregon
Remington, Theodore; PhD, University of Iowa
Rhodes, Kristofer; PhD, University of California Irvine
Richardson, Curtis; PhD, Northern Illinois University
Richeson, Jennifer; PhD, Michigan State University
Richmond, Jennifer; PhD, Duquesne University
Rightler-McDaniels, Jodi; Doctorate Degree, University of Tennessee
Roberts, Jennifer; EdD, Walden University
Robinson, Scott; DMin, Drew University
Rosenblatt, Heather; PhD, Ohio State University
Ross, Brittany; EdD, Regent University
Rothrock, Teresa; PhD, University of Oklahoma
Rupert, Nina; PhD, University of Idaho
Sanchez, Melvin; PhD, University of California Irvine
Sandlin, Scott; PhD, Texas Tech University
Santoro, Lauren; PhD, West Virginia University
Sayre Baptista, Amy; MFA, University of Illinois, Urbana
Schweitzer, Andrea; PhD, University of Wisconsin
Scotece, Shannon; PhD, State University of New York at Albany
Scott, Jessica; PhD, Brigham Young University
Setta, Kelly; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Shahi, Kimberly; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Sharpe, Barry; PhD, University of South Carolina
Simmons, Nathaniel; PhD, Ohio University
Simms, Edward; EdS, Alabama State University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 193
Sink, Cristina; MEd, Northern Kentucky University
Smith, Michael; PhD, Institute for Doctoral Studies in the Visual Arts
Smits Masten, Sally; PhD, University of North Carolina
Sperry, Amanda; PhD, Georgia State University
Springfield, Derriell; EdD, East Tennessee State University
St Martin, Ashley; MS, University of Vermont
Starr, Neil; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Steele, Bridget; Doctorate Degree, University of Central Florida
Stillwell, Darrell; Doctorate Degree, University of the Cumberlands
Storm, Anna; PhD, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Strong, Nicole; PhD, Clark Atlanta University
Stuckey, Lexi; PhD, University of Tulsa
Sviderskaya, Ilona; PhD, University of Iowa
Teters, Kristopher; PhD, University of Alabama
Thompson, Laila; Doctorate Degree, North Carolina State University
Thomsen, Kyle; PhD, Loyola University of Chicago
Timmer, Kristin; PhD, University of Tennessee
Tolin Schultz, Alex; PhD, Stony Brook University
Torrens, Amanda; PhD, Ohio University
Townsend, Jack; MEd, Grand Canyon University
Tronstad, LaRae; PhD, University of Texas at Austin
Tucker, Diana; PhD, Southern Illinois University Carbondale
Turner, Brandon; PhD, The Catholic University of America
Ulett, Crystal; Doctorate Degree, Howard University
Urschel, Jessica; PhD, Western Michigan University
Vasquez, Lauren; PhD, Mississippi State University
Vida, Anna; MFA, Arizona State University
Walker, Hope; MA, Courtauld Institute of Art
Weaver, Matthew; PhD, Washington State University
Webb, Dave; MA, Pacific University in Oregon
Wellinghoff, Lisa; PhD, University of Tulsa
Westmoreland, Brandi; PhD, Texas A&M University Commerce
Wicker, Michael; EdD, Stephen F. Austin State University
Wood, Alana; Doctorate Degree, Purdue University
Wood, Lauren; Doctorate Degree, Upstate Medical University
Wray, Frank; Doctorate Degree, University of Kansas
Yunker, Mathew; PhD, University of California, Irvine
Zivkovic, Vladimir; PhD, University of North Dakota
College of Business
Abbey, Boris; Doctorate Degree, Old Dominion University
Adler, Kathleen; PhD, Southern Methodist University
Aki, Charles; Doctorate Degree, Ohio State University
Alafita, Theresa; PhD, George Washington University
Ammons, David; PhD, NorthCentral University
Anderson, Rebekah; DBA, Capella University
Arenz, Austin; DM, Colorado Technical University
Argiento, Steven; JD, Pace University School of Law
Austin, Judy; MBA, Western Governors University
Baime, Eric; JD, Nova Southeastern University
Baksh, Andre; PhD, University of Utah
Banks, Lezlie; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Baraghoshi, Behroz; PhD, University of Utah
Barton, Robert; EdS, Utah State University
Beckles, Lloyd; PhD, University of Central Florida
Borch, Casey; PhD, University of Connecticut
Borg, Andrew; DBA, Walden University
Boudalia, Mohamed; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Brady, Mark; MBA, Westminster College
Brock, Suzanne; DBA, Northcentral University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 194
Brooks, Kimberly; Doctorate Degree, Barry University
Bushur Harris, Lisa; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Butcher-Mitchell, Lu Trenze; DBA, Argosy University
Carr, Michael; JD, St. John's University
Case, Tuyet; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Cassell, Kenneth; MBA, San Jose State University
Chu, Kaihsi; Doctorate Degree, University of Washington
Conklin, Laurie; MBA, Fordham University
Connor, Martin; JD, University of North Dakota
Cousar, Regina; EdD, Northeastern University
Crowder, Mindy; MBA, Texas Woman's University
Davis, Lorretta; PhD, Capella University
Davis, Mary; EdD, Central Michigan University
DePinto, Ross; PhD, Capella University
Dickinson, Christine; MM, Purdue University
Dillard, Clint; Master's Degree, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Doren, Andrew; DM, University of Maryland University College
Dorman, Brigham; PhD, Texas Tech University
Douglas, Pat; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Dunston, Stephanie; DBA, Argosy University
Duran, Anthony; MBA, Northcentral University
Ennis, Erica; JD, Quinnipiac University School of Law
Etter, Edwin; PhD, Ohio State University
Franciosa, Norma; MBA, Monmouth University
Franklin, Vincent; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Gabriel, Amanda; Master's Degree, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Gallo, Merry; DBA, Argosy University
Garcia, Carlos; Doctorate Degree, Minnesota School of Business
Garland, Jennifer; DBA, Keiser University
Garlington, Catherine; Master's Degree, University of Detroit, Mercy
Garrido, Laura; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Gatlin, Jacob; Doctorate Degree, Kennesaw State University
Gilyot, Bianca; DBA, Columbia Southern University
Giscombe, Hilbert; DBA, Argosy University
Goegan, Brian; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois at Chicago
Goggins, Trunnis; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Goldston, Justin; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Goolsby, Pazanta; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Gwyn, Mary; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Hall, Thomas; Master's Degree, University of Texas Arlington
Harding, Stephen; MBA, Iona College
Hartig, Chris; EdD, Northcentral University
Hartzog, Jerry; PhD, University of Alabama
Havel, Milan; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Havins, Merwin; EdD, Northern Arizona University
Haynes, Eduardo; DBA, University of Phoenix
Haywood, Derrick; DBA, Walden University
Heaton, Zeffie; Master's Degree, University of Montana
Heinzman, Robert; DM, Colorado Technical University
Hewlett, Roderic; DA, Middle Tennessee State University
Hon, Charles; PhD, Capella University
Hope, Ashley; Doctorate Degree, George Fox University
Hudson, Brandi; JD, Regent University
Hudson, W. Chris; EdD, University of Phoenix
Iannucci, Brian; PhD, Northcentral University
Imboden, Paul; DBA, Northcentral University
Jividen, Jim; JD, Ohio Northern University
Johnson, Janice; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Jones, Alan; MBA, Amos Tuck School Dartmouth College
Joseph, Thomas; Doctorate Degree, PhD Capella University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 195
Justice, Jeanne; DBA, Walden University
Kale, Mrinalini; PhD, Capella University
Keels, Stephen; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Kong, Ying; Doctorate Degree, Pennsylvania State University
Korb, David; Master's Degree, College of Santa Fe
Kushniroff, Melinda; EdD, Liberty University
Lamer, Maryann; PhD, Oklahoma State University
Leary, Maureen; PhD, Northcentral University
Lefly, Dianne; Doctorate Degree, University of Denver
Lemmonds, Jody; EdD, Trevecca Nazarene University
Leonard, Dee; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Leschke, John; PhD, University of Virginia
Leshinski, Dianne; MBA, University of Dayton
Lutter-Cooper, Victoria; PhD, Capella University
Magwood-Golston, Jametta; PhD, University of South Carolina
Mandelbaum, Sara; PhD, University of California, Santa Barbara
Mason, Ebony; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
McDannell, Carol; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
McDonald, Sandy; Master's Degree, University of Dallas
McDugle, Darin; Master's Degree, Columbia Southern University
McKay, Christina; JD, University of Baltimore School of Law
Melton, Rebecca; PhD, Chicago School of Professional Psychology
Merchant, Sylnovie; Doctorate Degree, University of Arkansas
Meseke, Lori; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Meyer, Elin; JD, Cleveland-Marshall College of Law
Miller, Brian; Master's Degree, University of Washington
Miller, Kim; EdD, University of St. Francis
Miller, Lori; LLM, New York University
Miller, Louise; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas
Miller, Tate; PhD, Trident University International
Mills, Colleen; PhD, Capella University
Mitterer, Dennis; PhD, Walden University
Moore, Detria; JD, Liberty University School of Law
Morant, LaWanda; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Morgan, Patricia; DM, University of Phoenix
Murphy, Deborah; Master's Degree, Capella University
Neely, Alex; MBA, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Nelms, Linda; PhD, Capella University
Nezerwe, Yvan; Doctorate Degree, Alliant International University
Nicolet, Laura; Doctorate Degree, Indiana Wesleyan University
O'Brien, Joseph; EdD, George Washington University
Owusu, Dwobeng; PhD, Keiser University
Patrick, Robin; Master's Degree, Liberty University
Patton, George; PhD, Walden University
Pawarski, Richard; PhD, Northcentral University
Phillips, Patti; JD, Stetson University College of Law
Pierce, Vern; Master's Degree, University of Wisconsin
Pineda, Antonio; PhD, VPISU Virginia Tech
Powell, Walfyette; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Price, Stacy; PhD, Capella University
Prince, John; Doctorate Degree, Duke University School of Law
Quarles, Amber; Doctorate Degree, Regent University
Reymore, Marie; PhD, University of Georgia
Reynolds, Noel; PhD, University of South Florida
Roark, Carolyn; Doctorate Degree, Indiana Wesleyan University
Roberts, Amy-Michele; Doctorate Degree, Colorado State University
Roberts, Tracia; MBA/MS, University of Phoenix
Roberts, Wade; PhD, University of Utah
Rodgers, Joan; Master's Degree, University of South Florida
Rodney, Luverna; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 196
Rogers, Katie; MBA, University of Utah
Ross, Derrick; DBA, Nottingham Trent University
Rotelli, Sheila; PhD, Benedictine University
Salisbury, JoDee; PhD, Capella University
SanPietro, Frank; PhD, University of Memphis
Scherer, Joel; DBA, Northcentral University
Sexton, Nathan; Doctorate Degree, University of LaVerne
Shah, Robin; MBA, Keller Graduate School of Management
Shepherd, Tracie; PhD, Northcentral University
Skinner, Susan; JD, Tulane University
Smairat, Naseem; Master's Degree, Southern New Hampshire University
Smith, Anastasia; PhD, University of South Florida
Snipes, Dawna; JD, Western Michigan University
Sommese, Jock; Doctorate Degree, Wilmington University
Strickland, Cynthia; PhD, Trident University
Swarthout, Nanette; MBA, Fontbonne University
Tennessee, Ashley; DHA, Medical University of South Carolina
Thompson, Christopher; PhD, University of Cambridge
Tiyamiyu, Ayodeji; MBA, Alabama University
Tucker, Barbara; Doctorate Degree, CalSouthern University
Venkateswar, Sankaran; PhD, University of Georgia
Wade, Keith; DBA, Argosy University
Walker, Robin; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Walker, Roblena; PhD, Walden University
Wall-Carty, Sean; Doctorate Degree, North Central University
Wallace, Jolivette; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Wang, Xiaofei; PhD, University of Kentucky
Wiebell, Julie; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Wilhelm, Sarah; PhD, University of Utah
Williams, Rian; MPA, University of Utah
Wolfe, Kristen; MBA, University of North Florida
Zonghetti, Beth; DBA, University of Phoenix
College of Health Professions
Abdur-Rahman, Veronica; PhD, Teachers College Columbia University
Abee, Debra; MS, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Alley, Kati; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Alpert, Patricia; Doctorate Degree, Loma Linda University
Atzen, Jennifer; Doctorate Degree, American Sentinel University
Austgen, Donna; MS, University of Indianapolis
Babela, Jane; MS, University of North Carolina
Ballard, Beverly; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Basinger, Michael; DNP, University of Nevada, Las Vegas
Bechard, Jessica; Master's Degree, Western Kentucky University
Bennett, William; PhD, University of Iowa
Benson, Johnett; DNP, Kent State University
Beverley, Charles; PhD, University of South Carolina
Blaine, Stephanie; PhD, Capella University
Blumenstock, Erica; Master's Degree, University of Southern Indiana
Bockheim, Elizabeth; MS, Ball State University
Borsum, Pamela; MBA, Western Governors University
Brophy, Barbara; DNP, Chamberlain University
Brown, Sharon; PhD, University of Phoenix
Brulotte, Melissa; PhD, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
Butler, Eve; Doctorate Degree, Barry University
Cain, Lyn; PhD, Grand Canyon University
Calkins, Erin; PhD, University of California, Santa Barbara
Cantey, Sherri; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Carney, Mary; DNP, Touro University Nevada
Carpio, Ronald; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 197
Chelius, Ruthanne; Doctorate Degree, Widener University
Cleveland, Melissa; DNP, Rocky Mountain University of Health Professions
Contreras, Melinda; Master's Degree, Marymount University
Croson, Elizabeth; MSN, Wheeling Jesuit University
Cumberbatch-Sullivan, Karen; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Cureton, Sara; MA, Gonzaga University
Curtis, Natasha; DNP, Grand Canyon University
Czuba, Bethany; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Dahdal, Kimberly; MS, Western Governors University
Dampeer-Moore, Jodi; EdD, Delaware State University
Dantzler, Barbara; PhD, Trident University
Dawson, Stefie; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Derryberry, JohnMark; MD, University of Illinois at Chicago
Diaz, Lorna; DNP, Western University of Health Sciences
Dillard, Brenda; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Dillard, Deborah; PhD, University of Phoenix
Djousse, Sylvie; DNP, MGH Institute Of Health Professions
Donaway, Deanne; PhD, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Dorin, Michelle; PhD, University of Missouri St. Louis
Edge, Denise; DNP, Samford University
Elmer, Justine; MS, Kaplan University
Enriquez-Wilson, Jewel; Doctorate Degree, Chamberlain University
Falsetta, Joanne; Doctorate Degree, Touro University
Feather, Caitlin; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Feather, Rebecca; PhD, Indiana University
Ferrygood, Leslie; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Fischer, James; DNP, University of Pittsburgh
Flanagan, Soneaqua; Bachelor Degree, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Forbes, Amy; PhD, South Dakota Sate University
Fuhrmann, Leah; Master's Degree, Texas Woman's University
Gallagher, Ruth; Doctorate Degree, University of South Florida
Gardner, Diana; MBA, Western Governors University
Garrett, Ashlee; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Garrett, Janette; MBA, University of Phoenix
Gatzemeier, Kallie; DNP, Graceland University
Gaut, Marcus; DNP, Samford University
Gianino, Krista; MAED, University of Phoenix
Golden, Christina; MS, University of Phoenix
Gomez Padilla, Gaston; Master's Degree, University of Texas at Brownsville
Gordy, Elizabeth; MS, South University
Gottesfeld, Ilene; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Gregory, Lindsay; Master's Degree, Eastern Kentucky University
Gunn, Linda; PhD, Union Institute and University
Gwyn, Elizabeth; MS, Winston Salem State University
Hadsell, Christine; PhD, University of Kansas
Hall, Kevin; MA, University of Phoenix
Hall, Molly; MSN, American Sentinel University
Hamilton, Cam; PhD, Auburn University
Hampton, Patricia; Master's Degree, Samford University
Hanna, Henrietta; PhD, Barry University
Hannon, Wendy; DNP, Chatham University
Harris, Anita; DNP, Chamberlain College of Nursing
Harris, Penny; Master's Degree, Jackson State University
Hartley-Clanton, Patricia; MS, University of Utah
Hawkinson, Julie; PhD, University of South Dakota
Helmstedter, Ann Marie; Doctorate Degree, American Sentinel University
Hernandez, Ali; MMPA, University of Phoenix
Hernandez, Emily; MSN, University of Phoenix
Hicks, Katherine; PhD, University of Oklahoma, Tulsa
Higginbotham, Erika; Doctorate Degree, Graceland University-Lamoni
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 198
Hill, Dina; Master's Degree, University of New Mexico
Hodson, Kristy; MS, Utah State University
Hoffer, Sallieann; PhD, Andrews University
Hoggle, Jasmine; DNP, University of Alabama
Hoskins, Melody; MBA, Texas Tech University
Johnson, Yaz; Doctorate Degree, Oklahoma State University
Johnson-Anderson, Heidi; EdD, University of South Dakota
Jones, Malena; PhD, SUNY at Buffalo
Jones, Salimah; Doctorate Degree, University of South Alabama
Jones, Tamara; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Judge, Deborah; DNP, University of Southern Indiana
Kabara, Edward; PhD, Michigan State University
Kangas, Sandra; PhD, Georgia State University
Kell, Tracey; MA, University of Alabama
King, Ellen; DNP, American Sentinel University
Kirkendol, Aimee; Doctorate Degree, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Kohring, Laurie; DNP, University of Colorado
Kosycarz, Kara; MS, University of South Alabama
Kowalski, Christine; EdD, Carlow University
Lacambra, Veronica; Master's Degree, Capital University
LaMar, Ruth; DNP, Indiana University
Langer Atkinson, Heidi; PhD, University of Albany
Lashlee, Marilyn; DNP, Lehman College
Latham, Amanda; MSN, Capella University
Lemmerbrock, Kristin; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
Light, Kenneth; PhD, Stanford University
Linville, Lisa; DNS, Louisiana State University
Lockridge, Marlene; Doctorate Degree, Oklahoma City University
Logan, Junius; MD, Ohio State University
Long, Jennifer; MS, Indiana University
Loveitt, Regina; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Lujan, Josefina; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston
Lull, Rachel; Master's Degree, MidAmerica Nazarene
Manigold, Roschelle; DNP, Marquette University
Marshall, Janet; PhD, Rush University
Martin, Kelly; PhD, Capella University
Martin, Vicki; PhD, Virginia Tech
Masterson, Debra; EdD, Liberty University
Mathiason, Lizzie; Master's Degree, University of Mary
Matz, Kayla; Doctorate Degree, University of Arizona
Mauldin, Tabatha; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Mbonu, Juliet; Doctorate Degree, Carlow University
McAlister, Kim; Master's Degree, Samford University
McCombs, Darlene; DNP, University of Alabama
McNally, Leah; MA, University of Minnesota
Meir, Christina; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Miller, Michele; MS, Albany State University
Miller-Monfils, Janet; PhD, Wayne State University
Monestime, Elsie; MPH, Adventist International Institute of Advanced Studies
Montoya, Karen; DNP, University of Cincinnati
Morrison, Victoria; PhD, University of Massachusetts, Boston
Mullins, Christopher; PhD, University of Louisville
Murphy, Kyle; PhD, Rutgers University
Nielsen, Karen; DNP, University of New Mexico
Northrup, Dolores; MS, Western Governors University
Obianyo Pederson, Obi; PhD, University of South Carolina
O'Malley, Maureen; PhD, University of Arizona
Peacock, Kyle; DM, University of Phoenix
Perez, Susan; DNP, Chatham University
Peters, Tamara; MS, Walden University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 199
Pritchard, Paula; PhD, University of Phoenix
Querales, Carolyn; DNP, University of Minnesota Minneapolis
Rawson, Robert; PhD, University of Texas
Redden, Cameron; MA, Baldwin-Wallace College
Reno, Anita; PhD, University of Texas Medical Branch
Reyes, Terri; DNP, University of St. Francis
Rogers, Carmelle; PhD, Kansas State University
Rogers, Jeanette; Master's Degree, Indiana Wesleyan
Royal, Polly; DNP, Purdue University
Russo, Linda; EdD, University of Hartford
Sauls, Kevin; Doctorate Degree, University of Alabama
Scarpena, Jennifer; DHEd, AT Still University
Schmitt, Kellie; MS, Drexel University
Schreffler, Karen; DNP, Carlow University
Scott, Angela; MS, Walden University
Scutro, Rebecca; MS, St. Joseph's University
Selover, Natalie; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Service, Rachel; PhD, University of California Riverside
Shaw Hoopingarner, Diana; DNP, Regis University
Simmons, Laura; PhD, University of Memphis
Sinatra-Wilhelm, Tina; DNP, Chatham University
Sizemore, Mary; MS, Indiana Wesleyan University
Sloger, Jane; MS, Northern Illinois University
Starkey, Traci; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Starr, Matthew; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Stasher-Booker, Bridgette; Doctorate Degree, Jackson State University
Steele, Kamala; DNP, American Sentinel University
Steighner-Ondik, Tammy; PhD, Capella University
Stewart, Michelle; DHA, University of Phoenix
Stubblefield, Angelique; PhD, Case Western Reserve University
Sunderhaus, Patricia; EdD, Argosy University
Tao, Ran; Doctorate Degree, University of Colorado
Tarantino, Philip; PhD, LaSalle University
Tice-Harouff, Cami Jo; DNP, Samford University
Tiwari, Priti; Doctorate Degree, Rutgers University
Torres y Torres, Janelle; PhD, University of Iowa
Travis, Gwen; Master's Degree, Gonzaga University
Trenholm, Robert; DNP, University of North Florida
Tucker, L Nicole; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Urquhart, Katherine; PhD, Capella University
Von Holden, Sophia; PhD, University of Houston
Wade-Murdock, Demecia; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Walker, Nikki; Master's Degree, Queens University of Charlotte
Waltrip, Kimberly; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri - St Louis
Washington, Patrick; DHEd, A.T. Still University
Welch, Colleen; MS, University of Kentucky
White, Kayla; DNP, Samford University
Widener, Jeanne; PhD, Ohio State University
Williams, Deborah; MS, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Williams, Latiena; DNP, South University
Williams-Fultz, Rosie; PhD, William Carey University
Withers, Gail; DNP, University of Kansas
Wolfe, Megan; Doctorate Degree, The George Washington University
Woods, Tanna; Doctorate Degree, Idaho State University
Workman, JoEllen; DBA, Wilmington University
Wyszynski, Connie; DNP, Rush University
Yatherajam, Gayatri; PhD, Colorado State University
Yoose, Cora; PhD, Florida International University
Zimmerli, Mandy; PhD, Iowa State University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 200
College of Information Technology
Abdulatif, Amr; PhD, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Alberici, Mary; PhD, University of Missouri
Al-Husaam, Abdul; PhD, Capella University
Allen, Candice; MS, Capella University
Alston, Jermaine; Master's's Degree, East Carolina University
Anderson, Erik; Master's Degree, University of Missouri
Antonucci, Amy; MS, University of Delaware
Arzu, Luis; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Ashe, James; PhD, University of Tennessee
Bailey, Christine; Master's Degree, Webster University
Balmaceda, Ruben; Master's Degree, Florida International University
Barnhart, Joseph; PhD, Texas A&M University
Blanson, Constance; PhD, Capella University
Bradbury, Nathaniel; Master's Degree, University of Fairfax
Bradley, Barrie; Master's Degree, Arizona State University
Brewer, Harlan; PhD, Utah State University
Brown, Adrian; Master's Degree, Webster University
Burwick, Wanda; ABD, University of Phoenix
Cameron, David; MS, Naval Postgraduate School
Campbell, Wendy; DBA, Northcentral University
Carter, Betty; ABD, Capella University
Cook, Henry; MS, Clark Atlanta University
Cortez-Littlefield, Nathan; Master's Degree, Cal State University Monterey Bay
Crawford, Demetria; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Cribb, Mark; Master's Degree, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Curtis, Bob; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Dall, Gary; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Davis, Lori; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Dean, William; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Denchy, Mark; MBA, Alvernia University
DeSot, Julie; DM, University of Maryland University College
Dill, Shawn; MS, Western Governors University
Dove, Will; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Dow, Dennis; Master's Degree, Denver Seminary
D'Souza, Jeevan; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
DuPree, Yolanda; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Eich, Michelle; Master's Degree, Montclair State University
Elias, Nilsa; PhD, Capella University
Elleh, Festus; PhD, Capella University
Elliott, Nicole; Master's Degree, Syracuse University
Everton, Michael; Master's Degree, Grand Canyon University
Farmer, Aaron; MS, Western Governors University
Farmer, Jaynee; MA, University of Arkansas Little Rock
Ferdinand, Jeff; MS, Trident University
Gagner, David; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Galliano, John; Doctorate Degree, University of Fairfax
Geiser, Jerry; MBA, Western Governors University
Gilroy, Lauren; Doctorate Degree, University of New Hampshire
Goodell, Kristopher; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Goodman, Dan; Master's Degree, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Goodwin, Orenthio; PhD, Capella University
Haastrup, Janita; PhD, Capella University
Hallock, Melissa; Master's Degree, Phoenix University
Hartz, Daniel; Master's Degree, Champlain College
Heiner, Jenny; MS, Capitol College
Hodges, Dwayne; Doctorate Degree, Wilmington University
Howell, Duane; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Hubbard, Benita; MS, Capella University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 201
Hunsicker, Michael; Master's Degree, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Ibarra, Ernesto; Master's Degree, Colorado Technical University
Jakes, Jackie; MS, Western Governors University
Jensen, Bryan; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Johnson, Bruce; MS, University of Washington
Jordan, Michael; MBA, Webster University
Kamara, Kesselly; Doctorate Degree, Colorado Technical University
Kar, Amit; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas
Kendricks, Justin; MBA, Davenport University
Kercher, Paul; MS, University of Missouri
Kettani, Mouna; MS, Jackson State University
Kettemborough, Clifford; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Kinkead, Mark; Master's Degree, Monmouth University
Kovacic, Rick; Master's Degree, California State University
Kozakoff, Steve; ABD, University of South Florida
Kumar, Robert; Master's Degree, CSU Fullerton
Levy, Cornel; PhD, Capella University
Linnert, Erin; MS, University of Central Florida
Lusby, Jack; Master's Degree, Florida Institute of Technology
Marsh, Andrae; Doctorate Degree, University of Southern California
Martinez, Juan; Doctorate Degree, Florida International University
Mccoy, Aurroyo; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
McFarlane, Michele; MS, Keller Graduate School of Management
McKinney, Michael; Master's Degree, University of Central Florida
McLaughlin, Michael; MS, University of Maine
McLeary, Gary; Master's Degree, Information Technology
McPheters, Sean; MBA, University of Phoenix
McReynolds, Kevin; PhD, Capella University
Mendell, Ronald; MS, Capitol College
Middleton, Keiona; Doctorate Degree, Robert Morris University
Milham, Thomas; MBA, Garvin School of International Management
Minnick, Jessica; Master's Degree, University of South Florida
Moore, Arthur; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Moore, Mike; Doctorate Degree, University of Alabama
Moore, Ralph; Master's Degree, DeVry University
Muhammad, Basil; EdD, University of Phoenix
Paddock, Charles; PhD, University of Houston
Patton, Belinda; Doctorate Degree, Auburn University
Pinaire, Kenneth; DSc, Dakota State University
Rabor, Leticia; Master's Degree, University of Advancing Technology
Randolph, Ray; Master's Degree, Central Michigan University
Roberts, Rodger; Master's Degree, Colorado Technical University
Robinson, Tony; DBA, Northcentral University
Rogers, Gary; PhD, Walden University
Rubey, Sidney; Doctorate Degree, Colorado Technical University
Ruiz, Juan; Master's Degree, Texas Southern University
Rukieh, Kusay; Doctorate Degree, Florida Institute of Technology
Rutledge, Randy; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Sammons, David; Master's Degree, Westminster College
Schaefer, Brett; MBA, Keller Graduate School of Management
Schenk, Maria; MS, City University
Schwartz, Jessica; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Sewell, William; PhD, University of Houston
Sharpe, Jody; MS, University of Texas at Dallas
Sher-DeCusatis, Carolyn; DPS, Pace University
Shields, Jessica; MFA, Savannah College of Art & Design
Short, Joel; MBA, Southwestern College
Sinanovic, Sladan; PhD, Northcentral University
Sistelos, Antonio; PhD, Indiana State University
Smith, Daniel; Doctorate Degree, Arizona State University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 202
Spiller, Jerry; MS, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Stauber, Randy; ABD, Capella University
Straw, Eric; Master's Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Sundararajan, Radha; Master's Degree, University of Arizona
Taylor, Michelle; Master's Degree, Purdue University Northwest
Tepe, Cemal; Doctorate Degree, Yildiz Technical University
Thomas, Roy; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Tomeo, Mel; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Torres, Albert; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Wabara, Malcolm; MS, Pace University
Walker, Terry; Doctorate Degree, University of Alabama
Watt, Michelle; DBA, Walden University
Weidner, Thomas; MS, Ohio State University
Williams, Michelle; MS, Union University
Wilson, Myron; MS, Western Governors University
Teachers College
Aafif, Amal; PhD, Drexel University
Allen, Elizabeth; EdD, Argosy University
Allen-Pleasant, Christy; EdD, Grambling State University
Angelo, Helena; EdD, Wilmington University
Angeloni, Lynette; PhD, Capella University
Aranda, Christina; MA, University of Utah
Aufderhaar, Carolyn; EdD, University of Cincinnati
Ballard, Patricia; EdD, Argosy University
Barraza-Mancilla, Ruth; EdD, William Howard Taft University
Barrett, Amy; Doctorate Degree, Oakland City University
Baxter, Marissa; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Betkowski, Ashley; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Betts, Anastasia; PhD, Regent University
Blanks, Dorothy; PhD, University of Tennessee
Branan, Daniel; PhD, University of Denver
Brogan, Lynnette; EdD, Teachers College Columbia University
Brooks, Marlaina; EdD, Texas A&M University Commerce
Bunting, Tia; Doctorate Degree, University of Delaware
Carey, Kimberly; PhD, Northern Arizona University
Celik, Rebecca; PhD, University of California - Irvine
Chapman, Teressa; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Charles, Mario; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri
Cipolla, Christopher; PhD, Northwest Nazarene University
Clark, Shannon; MS, Southwest Baptist University
Cohen, Kimberly; PhD, University of Iowa
Comas, Jacqueline; PhD, Indiana University
Cooper, Jennifer; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Corbin, David; EdS, Loyola University Chicago
Crave, Jerad; Doctorate Degree, Western Carolina University
Crawford, Simon; Doctorate Degree, Arizona State University
Czaplewski, John; PhD, University of Minnesota
Davenport, Rebecca; MA, Western Governors University
Deckelmann, Miranda; EdD, Northcentral University
Dees, Nancy; PhD, Regent University
Devenish-Williams; Samantha; MS, Nova Southeastern University
Doiel, Patrick; EdD, NorthCentral University
Douglas, Deanna; PhD, Wichita State University
Dukes, Debra; EdD, University of Georgia
Durakiewicz, Anna; MS, University of Marie Curie
Elledge, Amy; Doctorate Degree, University of Virginia
Fay, Persis; EdD, California State University, Sacramento
Feng, Suiping; MA, City University of New York
Field, Kathleen; PhD, Rutgers University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 203
Flavin, Kathryn; PhD, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Flores, Alberto; EdD, Grand Canyon University
Francis, David; MA, Western Governors University
Francis, Steve; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Gaviola, Kayle; Specialist Degree, Walden University
Geiselhofer, Melissa; EdD, Walden University
Giddens, Evelyn; PhD, Capella University
Gillman, Brenna; PhD, University of Utah
Glass, Lindsey; PhD, Cleveland State University
Gorgin, Elaheh; PhD, Michigan Technological University
Gray, Jennifer; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
Griffin, Robin; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Grover, Susan; Bachelor Degree, Brigham Young University
Gully, Juliana; Doctorate Degree, University of Central Florida
Hairston, Tia; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Hall, Tammy; EdD, Capella University
Halverson, Colleen; PhD, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Harbin, Lesley; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Harris, J. Ken; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Harris, Lorena; EdD, North Central University
Hayes, Heather; EdD, University of Phoenix
Hedman, Shawn; PhD, University of Illinois Chicago
Hempen, Brandy; Doctorate Degree, William Howard Taft Univeristy
Hiebel, Adam; EdD, Ohio University
Homsi, Dana; PhD, University of Colorado
Hudon-Miller, Sarah; PhD, Purdue University
Hughes, Amy; EdD, University of Montana
Janitzki, Dean; MA, Ashland University
Johnson, Sherri; PhD, Capella University
Jones, Keri; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri
Katsafanas, Jodi; Doctorate Degree, University of Pittsburgh
Kelley, Matthew; PhD, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Kelly, Gretchen; EdD, Walden University
Kruger, Mary; EdD, Northcentral University
Kurtz, Caren; Doctorate Degree, Frostburg State University
Lavan, Celestine; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Ledbetter, Jess; Doctorate Degree, Arizona State University
Leinbach, William; EdD, Oregon State University
Levy, Chris; Doctorate Degree, Concordia University
Lipscomb, Pauline; EdD, University of the Cumberlands
Lombardo-Graves, Mary; Doctorate Degree, Northern Illinois University
Ludwig, Martha; Doctorate Degree, University of Buffalo
Luster, Sandricia; EdS, Argosy University
Machado, Cindy; EdD, Oklahoma State University
Machuca, Alicia; PhD, University of Texas at Arlington
Malone, Randi; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
McCain, Michelle; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
McCann, Brian; PhD, Mississippi State University
McCarver, Patricia; PhD, California Institute of Integral Studies
McElhaney, Christine; EdD, Liberty University
McGrath Hovland, Michelle; EdD, University of South Dakota
McMillen, Shelley; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Meade, David; Doctorate Degree, Carson-Newman University
Meadows, Julie; EdD, Walden University
Melton, Lili; PhD, Capella University
Mendes, John; EdD, Argosy University
Metlay, Suzanne; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Mezzaroba, Anna; EdD, University of Phoenix
Moore, Delmon; EdD, Argosy University
Morgan, Brandon; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 204
Morgan, Matthew; PhD, Montana State University
Murray, Mary; EdS, Florida Atlantic University
Murray, Robert; PhD, Florida Atlantic University
Neaville, Stacey; PhD, Walden University
Nelson, Susan; Doctorate Degree, Pennsylvania State University
Norton, Cindy; EdD, Grand Canyon University
Odom, M. Katherine; PhD, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Pac, Rachel; EdD, Walden University
Pack, Mamie; PhD, Capella University
Parry, Kelly; PhD, University of North Texas
PeQueen, Carol; PhD, Keiser University
Pesterfield, Windsor; Doctorate Degree, Lincoln Memorial University
Probst, Jacqueline; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Quinn, Lori; MEd, Prairie View A&M University
Rader, Klista; EdD, University of Kentucky
Rahsaz, Jacqueline; MA, University of California San Diego
Randonis, Jennifer; PhD, Arizona State University
Remaly, Kristie; EdD, University of Phoenix
Richardson, Dale; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Richen, Damara; EdS, Fielding Graduate University
Riner, Emily; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri-Kansas City
Roberts, Cortney; Doctorate Degree, Lynn University
Robidoux, Lee Ann; PhD, Walden University
Robinson, Ami; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Robinson, Bryant; PhD, Hope Bible Institute and Seminary
Roby, Julie; ABD, Capella University
Russell, Nancy; PhD, Ohio University
Rzyski, Megan; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Sawyer, Ryann; EdD, Argosy University
Schmidt, Stanley; PhD, Brigham Young University
Sepetys, Peggy; EdD, University of Michigan Dearborn
Shrader, Vincent; PhD, Brigham Young University
Siler, Terrance; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Silver, Jennifer; PhD, New York University
Simpson, Kimberly; PhD, University of Maryland
Singleton, Lori; EdD, Clark Atlanta University
Smith, Andrea; EdD, University of Georgia
Smith, Janeal; PhD, Walden University
Smith, Terri; Doctorate Degree, Regent University
Spencer, Kristin; PhD, University of Florida
Story, Colleen; PhD, Capella University
Stubblefield, Jessica; PhD, University of Oklahoma
Swenson, Karl; PhD, Indiana University
Tash, Gina; EdD, Walden University
Thompson, Jennifer; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Thornsberry, Jeffrey; ABD, William Woods University
Turner, Carmen; PhD, University of Memphis
Valentino, Cristina; EdD, University of North Florida
Vaughn, Monique; EdD, University of Phoenix
Vickers, Paul; EdD, Stephen F. Austin State University
Wade, Sharlie; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Wages, Michele; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Wallender, Jennifer; PhD, University of North Dakota
Wattam, Marni; Doctorate Degree, University of Idaho
Weaver, Rachel; EdD, Concordia University
Wedemeier, Rachel; EdD, Walden University
Weinstein, Gideon; PhD, Indiana University Bloomington
Westerman, Paula; EdD, Widener University
Wheat, Adriane; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Wilburn, Teresa; EdD, University of Sarasota
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 205
Willey-Rendon, Ruby; PhD, Texas Tech University
Williamson-Henriques, Kendra; Doctorate Degree, University of North Carolina
Wisnosky, Marc; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Yanusheva, Lidiya; EdD, Walden University
© Western Governors University Dec 27, 2021 206
