Institutional Catalog
Western Governors University
2017 University Catalog
Volume MMXVII, No. 3
May 2017
Undergraduate and Graduate Programs
Teachers College
College of Business
College of Information Technology
College of Health Professions
The electronic catalog—the WGU public website—is available at any time by accessing the following URL:
www.wgu.edu
The print version of this catalog for students and prospective students may be requested by contacting Darin Hobbs,
Registrar at registrar@wgu.edu.
Disclaimer: All information in this catalog is provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute a legal
contract between Western Governors University and any person or entity unless otherwise specified. Information in this
catalog is subject to change without prior notice. Although every reasonable effort is made to present current and
accurate information, Western Governors University makes no guarantees of any kind.
Western Governors University
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
Toll Free: 866.225.5948
Local Phone: 801.274.3280
Fax: 801.274.3305
info@wgu.edu
www.wgu.edu
Table of Contents
About Western Governors University 5
Admissions 15
State Regulatory Information 22
Tuition and Financial Aid 28
Academic Policies 33
Academic Programs 52
College of Business Programs 54
B.S. Business Management 55
B.S. Business - Healthcare Management 57
B.S. Business - Human Resource Management 59
B.S. Business - Information Technology Management 61
B.S. Marketing Management 63
B.S. Accounting 65
Master of Business Administration 67
MBA Information Technology Management 68
MBA Healthcare Management 69
M.S. Integrated Healthcare Management 70
M.S. Management and Leadership 71
M.S. Accounting 72
College of Health Professions Programs 73
B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) 74
B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN) 76
M.S. Nursing - Education 77
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management 78
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics 79
M.S. Nursing - Education (RN to MSN) 80
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN) 82
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN) 84
College of Information Technology Programs 86
B.S. Data Management/Data Analytics 87
B.S. Information Technology 89
B.S. Information Technology - Network Administration 91
B.S. Information Technology - Security 93
B.S. Software Development 95
B.S. Health Information Management 97
M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 99
M.S. Data Analytics 100
M.S. Information Technology Management 101
Teachers College Programs 102
B.A. Interdisciplinary Studies (K-8) 104
B.A. Mathematics (5-9) 106
B.A. Mathematics (5-12) 108
B.A. Science (5-9) 110
B.A. Science (Biological Science, 5-12) 112
B.A. Science (Chemistry, 5-12) 114
B.A. Science (Geosciences, 5-12) 116
B.A. Science (Physics, 5-12) 118
B.A. Special Education (K-12) 120
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Elementary Education (K-8) 122
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Mathematics (5-9) 123
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Mathematics (5-12) 124
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Science (5-9) 125
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Science (5-12) 126
Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Social Science (5-12) 127
M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education (K-8) 128
M.A. Teaching, English (5-12) 129
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics (5-9) 130
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics (5-12) 131
M.A. Teaching, Science (5-9) 132
M.A. Teaching, Science (5-12) 133
M.A. Teaching, Social Science (5-12) 134
M.S. Special Education (K-12) 135
M.S. Educational Leadership 136
M.A. English Language Learning (PreK-12) 137
M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6) 138
M.A. Mathematics Education (5-9) 139
M.A. Mathematics Education (5-12) 140
M.A. Science Education (5-9) 141
M.A. Science Education (Chemistry, 5-12) 142
M.A. Science Education (Physics, 5-12) 143
M.A. Science Education (Biological Science, 5-12) 144
M.A. Science Education (Geosciences, 5-12) 145
M.Ed. Instructional Design 146
M.Ed. Learning and Technology 147
M.S. Curriculum and Instruction 148
Endorsement Preparation Program, Educational Leadership 149
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (PreK-12) 150
Course Descriptions 151
Course Mentor Directory 181
About Western Governors University
WGU is a fully accredited online university offering online bachelor and master degree programs.
The vision of Western Governors University is to serve the needs of today's information age citizens. Now more than
ever, people need easy access to affordable, practical education that will give them skills and knowledge they can take
directly into the workplace. WGU meets that need directly by providing high-quality, accessible education in fields of
study that are in demand. WGU does this through the use of technology to overcome barriers of time and distance.
Through the use of the Internet, videoconferencing and other methods, students and teachers create valuable contact
that is essential to the learning process without having to incur the expense and inconvenience of traveling to a campus.
WGU awards its competency-based degrees based on what a student knows and can do, rather than on the number of
hours a student spends in class. WGU does this by administering assessments that give a student an opportunity to
demonstrate his or her mastery of a particular subject area. Those same assessments give an employer or prospective
employer confidence in the student's abilities.
An Online University with a Mission
WGU is mission driven. Created to expand access to higher education through online, competency-based degree
programs, WGU’s mission has remained one of helping hardworking adults meet their educational goals and improve
their career opportunities.
To fulfill the mission, the founding governors also insisted that WGU help students achieve their dreams for a degree
and career success by providing a personal, flexible, and affordable education based on real world competencies. Thus,
WGU strives to serve as many students as possible—including minorities, first-generation college students, those with
modest incomes, and others whose lives or geographic locations do not allow them to attend traditional, campus-based
colleges.
Today’s WGU student body is quite diverse. WGU serves students residing in all 50 states, in both urban and rural
settings, and active-duty military personnel and their spouses at overseas military installations. The average WGU
student is 36 years old and works full or part-time jobs while attending. Most students pursuing a bachelor’s degree
already have some college experience.
The mission of Western Governors University is to improve quality and expand access to post-secondary educational
opportunities by providing a means for individuals to learn independent of time and place and to earn competency-
based degrees and other credentials that are credible to both academic institutions and employers.
Institutional Core Themes
Mission fulfillment at WGU is defined by a series of critical statements that are at the very heart of the University’s
operations. Those statements are represented by WGU’s core themes. WGU’s core themes, their objectives, and
measures of success express the University’s commitment to the mission. The core themes are universally accepted by
the faculty and staff and display the values and goals WGU plans to achieve. The metrics assigned to each objective will
be evaluated to measure the success of each one, and ultimately signify how effectively WGU is reaching mission
fulfillment.
Core Theme 1: Use a competency-based approach to prepare the nation’s education, IT, business, and health
professionals with the core knowledge, skills, and dispositions essential to performing their professional responsibilities.
WGU uses a competency-based approach to measure students’ skills, abilities, and dispositions through a series of
assessments intended to represent demands encountered in real-life situations. The university’s assessment system
provides students with opportunities to demonstrate competence through multiple assessment measures. This multi-
faceted approach allows us to assess skills and abilities at different cognitive levels. WGU believes that this
comprehensive assessment system allows us to determine student competence to interact professionally in the fields of
education, IT, business, and health. The Assessment Council, a panel of national assessment experts, fulfills a critical
academic function for the university by reviewing and validating the university’s assessment development process. The
program and assessment design process has evolved over the past year to become more collaborative and to ensure
that all program components (e.g., domains, assessments, learning resources, courses of study) align to the program’s
conceptual framework and goals.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 5
Core Theme 2: Provide accessible and affordable academic programs through the use of technology that allow students
to progress and complete their program requirements independent of time or place.
WGU was founded in 1996 by 19 western governors to confront the need to educate an ever-increasing population with
a limited, and often shrinking education budget. WICHE (Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education) and
NCHEMS (National Center for Higher Education Management Systems) were integrally involved in the development and
early implementation of the university and they designed WGU with five central themes:
● Responsiveness to employment and societal needs;
● A focus on competency-based education;
● Expanding access;
● Cost-effectiveness; and
● Development of a technology infrastructure.
WGU’s second core theme requires the combination of accessible and affordable academic programs with the use of
technology to allow students to progress and complete their program requirements independent of time or place
Core Theme 3: Provide academic programs to prepare traditionally underserved students for relevant professional
careers in the 21st century workplace.
A fundamental purpose of Western Governors University is to offer online undergraduate and graduate degree
programs that are competency-based, academically rigorous, competitive, and relevant in today’s marketplace. In order
to support the university mission and to expand access to meet students where they are, WGU strives to serve an
underrepresented population of students–including minorities, first generation college students, those with modest
incomes, and others whose lives or rural geographical locations do not allow them to attend traditional, campus-based
locations. The founding governors of WGU determined that our mission should adhere to several key objectives in
support of the core theme of helping underserved students receive a quality education and adequately prepare for the
rigors of their chosen career path. Namely, our degree programs must be affordable, flexible, and student focused.
Competency Based Education
Colleges and universities traditionally award credit for classroom hours attended, conferring degrees based on students’
completion of a certain set of courses for a given number of credit hours. As an online institution that provides its
students the convenience of studying and completing coursework outside the classroom, WGU offers a competency-
based program for completing its degree and certificate requirements.
Competency-based programs allow students to demonstrate through assessments that they have acquired the set of
competencies (levels of knowledge, skill, or ability) required for a particular degree or certificate. Adult students have
often acquired many of the skills necessary for a degree through their life or previous work experience. WGU’s
competency-based system enables students to employ such previously learned skills in proving their competency.
A team of faculty and other subject-matter experts have identified the required competencies for each degree offered at
WGU. Competencies summarize the critical knowledge and skill levels essential for mastery of a particular field.
WGU students demonstrate mastery of competencies by completing assessments. An assessment may be a traditional
“test,” a project, an essay, or another practical demonstration of a required skill. Therefore, assessments come in many
different forms, including:
● Assignments involving problem-solving in science or information technology;
● Computerized math examinations consisting of multiple-choice, matching, and other question types;
● Projects requiring the student to design a lesson plan about American history;
● Reflection essays about case studies; and
● Research papers on particular topics within the student’s field.
Each assessment measures knowledge and skill in a given area through an appropriate means, allowing students to
prove their competency in that content area.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 6
Accreditation
Accreditation provides evidence that outside evaluators have carefully reviewed and approved WGU’s programs and
policies, enables the transfer of credits to other accredited institutions, and legitimizes degree credentials for employers
and colleges.
Regional Accreditation
Western Governors University is regionally accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities
(NWCCU), one of the major accrediting commissions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Regional
accreditation is the highest form of accreditation.
Western Governors University has the distinction of being the only university to receive regional accreditation
simultaneously from four regional accrediting commissions. This was in part because of our founding by the governors
of 19 U.S. states, which encompass a wide geographic region. The Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities
is now considered WGU’s home accrediting body.
NCATE
The National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) is the premier specialized accrediting body for
teacher preparation and is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. NCATE accredits colleges of education that
produce over two-thirds of the nation’s new teacher graduates annually.
The WGU Teachers College received unconditional accreditation from the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher
Education (NCATE). WGU is the first exclusively online university to receive NCATE accreditation for its degree
programs that lead to teacher licensure.
This means that all WGU teaching programs, at both the undergraduate and graduate levels were reviewed by this
national accreditation agency. In addition, a number of WGU programs have been singled out for national recognition by
NCATE and the specialized professional associations that govern curriculum in those programs; in particular, currently
all programs in mathematics, elementary education, science, social science, ELL, and technology have been awarded
national recognition.
CCNE
Officially recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a national accreditation agency, the Commission on
Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) is an autonomous accrediting agency, contributing to the improvement of public
health. CCNE ensures the quality and integrity of baccalaureate, graduate, and residency programs in nursing. CCNE
accreditation supports and encourages continuing self-assessment by nursing programs and supports continuing growth
and improvement of collegiate professional education and post-baccalaureate nurse residency programs.
In 2014, the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education’s (CCNE) Board of Commissioners granted continuing
accreditation to the baccalaureate degree program in nursing and the master’s degree program in nursing at Western
Governors University for ten years, extending to June 30, 2024. The programs received unconditional approval by
illustrating full compliance with all key elements.
The bachelor’s and master’s nursing degree programs at WGU are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing
Education (One Dupont Circle, NW, Suite 530, Washington, DC 20036, 202-887-6791).
CAHIIM
WGU’s Health Information Management program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health
Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM).
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 7
University Governance
WGU is governed by the Board of Trustees consisting of educators, industry leaders, and state governors. In addition,
WGU continues to draw support (although no state funding) from the governors of the member states that were
instrumental in the founding of WGU.
The following link provides information about the Board of Trustees, including chairman and directors, National Advisory
Board and other university officials: http://www.wgu.edu/about_WGU/governors_industry
Board of Trustees (February 2017):
The Honorable Jim Geringer, Chairman Scott Pulsipher
Director, Policy & Public Sector, ESRI President
Governor of Wyoming, 1995-2003 Western Governors University
Cole Clark Dr. Robert W. Mendenhall
Executive Director, Higher Education Client Relations President Emeritus
Deloitte Services, LP Western Governors University
Former Global VP for Education and Research, Oracle
John W. Bluford, III Lenny Mendonca
President Director of Firm Knowledge
Bluford Healthcare Leadership Institute McKinsey Global Knowledge
Former President, Truman Medical Centers
Dr. Therese (Terry) Crane David Simmons
President President
Crane Associates Simmons Media Group
Former Executive with Apple and AOL
Dr. Emily S. DeRocco Dr. Samuel H. Smith
Principal President Emeritus
E3 Engage Educate Employ Washington State University
Former U.S. Asst. Secretary of Labor
Robert Evanson The Honorable Gary Herbert
Former President Governor
McGraw Hill Education State of Utah
The Honorable John Hickenlooper Dr. Charles Sorenson
Governor President and CEO
State of Colorado Intermountain Healthcare
Tammy Johns
CEO
Strategy & Talent
National Advisory Board:
The WGU National Advisory Board (NAB) consists of major corporations and private foundations that provide ongoing
support and advice to the university. The NAB was created in order to enhance the implementation of the WGU mission
and aid in the strategic planning process of WGU. The NAB serves at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees and
consists of a diverse group of industry representatives, currently including the fields of technology, publishing, and
consulting. The primary aim of the NAB is to foster a global and visionary perspective for WGU. Current members
include:
AT&T Hospital Corporation of America J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Foundation
CenturyLink Lumina Foundation Simmons Media Group
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Alfred P. Salon Foundation Tenet Healthcare
Dell Microsoft Wasatch Property Management
Google Oracle Zions Bank
Hewlett-Packard Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 8
University Officials:
Scott Pulsipher Francine Peterman
President and CEO National Director (Dean) of the WGU Teachers College
MBA, Harvard Ph.D., University of Arizona
Lucas B. Kavlie Myles Vogel
Associate Provost, Compliance & Accreditation National Director (Dean) for College of IT, Interim CIO
Ed.D., University of North Texas Ph.D., D.M., University of Maryland University College
Fred Hurst Jan Jones-Schenk
Vice President for Academic Advancement National Director (Dean) of Nursing
Ph.D., Union Institute and University DHSc., A.T. Still University
Sarah DeMark Rashmi Prasad
Vice President, Program Development National Director (Dean) for College of Business
Ph.D., Arizona State University Ph.D., University of Kentucky
Stacey (Ludwig) Johnson Bob Collins
Associate Provost for Academic Services Vice President, Financial Aid
Ph.D., University of Colorado-Denver MPA, University of Phoenix
Mitsu Phillips Robert W. Mendenhall
Associate Provost for Mentoring President Emeritus
MBA, Western Governors University Ph.D., Brigham Young University
Academic Program Governance
Academic programs are developed and guided by WGU administrators working through several councils comprised of
academicians and industry experts in the various fields of knowledge. Each WGU academic program has a program
council which is the official faculty governing body for a degree or certification program. Program councils, along with
the program coordinator, are responsible for overseeing the development of the curriculum (including performance
descriptions, subdomains and domains), overseeing all assessments, and updating the curriculum.
In addition to program councils, an Assessment Council comprised of assessment experts is responsible for working
with academic program councils, assessment development vendors and WGU assessment staff to ensure that the
assessments developed are appropriate tests of the competencies identified by the program councils. For a listing of
members of the Academic Leadership, Assessment Council, Health Professions Program Council, General Education
Program Council, Business Program Council, Information Technology Program Council, General Education Program
Council, please see links available at: www.wgu.edu/about_WGU/governors_industry
Faculty Composition
WGU employs a disaggregated faculty model across the university. That is, the aggregated roles and tasks traditionally
performed by university professors, such as meeting with and advising students, course or curriculum design, learning
resource selection, instruction, and assessment, are effectively disaggregated or "unbundled.”
In concurrence with this disaggregated model, the role of individual WGU faculty members focuses on single aspects of
students’ academic experience. Within WGU, there are several essential faculty roles and associated tasks:
● Student Mentors provide overall academic support of students;
● Course Mentors provide content expertise and instructional help to students as they work to complete courses of
study and prepare for assessments;
● Curriculum Managers develop, manage, and provide ongoing evaluation of academic programs and curriculum;
● Council Members provide academic expertise and industry experience;
● Adjunct Faculty evaluate assessments and perform clinical observation and evaluation of candidates in the
Teachers College and in the Nursing Programs.
Student Mentors
For each student, the primary faculty support is a personally assigned Student Mentor. The role of the Student Mentor is
to provide continuous academic support from the moment an individual becomes a student to the time he or she
graduates. This involves regularly scheduled academic progress conversations weekly or biweekly and active
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 9
involvement in other aspects of the student’s academic career. While not an expert in all subjects, the student mentor
guides the student through the overall program and offers coaching and practical advice.
Course Mentors
The Course Mentor serves as the subject matter expert in the Course(s) of Study (COS) and provides academic help to
students enrolled in those respective COS. Course Mentors conduct regular outreach to students and assist those who
may need additional clarification or academic support. They also facilitate virtual learning communities and regularly
host webinars and teleconferences.
Curriculum Managers
The Curriculum Manager establishes a vision of each degree program, designs, develops and maintains its curriculum,
and monitors performance to ensure program quality and student success. He or she is responsible for the overall
performance and marketability of assigned courses, assessments, and degree programs. The Curriculum Manager
relies heavily on student engagement and performance data as well as student and faculty feedback to measure the
effectiveness of courses, learning resources, assessments, and degree programs.
Council Members
Council members are nationally recognized experts in their respective fields. They consult with the Dean or National
Director to provide advice, make recommendations, and offer guidance on degrees to be developed and key
competencies to be included in those degrees. This includes guidance on workforce needs, the updating of new degree
programs, and examining programs for their currency.
Adjunct Faculty
Evaluators are carefully trained, expert assessors, whose work is calibrated to ensure that they accurately and fairly
apply the performance assessment analytic rubric criteria. Evaluators score performance assessments—which require
the submission of artifacts such as essays, lesson plans, reflection, and presentations. These evaluations allow us to
measure student competence at a high level of cognitive demand.
Clinical Supervisors observe teacher candidates in demonstration teaching, complete observation forms, prepare
improvement plans if needed, conduct pre- and post-observation conferences, and participate in midterm and final
evaluations.
Clinical Instructors provide support, guidance, and feedback for nursing students in the clinical setting.
Clinical Coaches work one-on-one with nursing students. They must have an unencumbered license, a minimum of two
years of direct patient care experience, strong communication and computer literacy skills, and a desire and interest in
clinical teaching.
Academic Calendar
The traditional academic calendar with limited enrollment periods, holidays, and other significant dates is not applicable.
In the WGU continuous-enrollment model, new groups of students start every month. Students can access learning
resources, schedule assessments, view grader notes, and complete online performance assessments any time, day or
night, without regard to holidays and other significant dates.
Instead of semesters, at which time many students begin (or continue) their programs, WGU starts new students at the
beginning of each month, which launches a new "term."
A "term" at WGU is six months in length. The six months that make up a term are based on when the student begins
their program. (For example, if a student begins their program March 1st, the first term will last from March 1st to August
31st. The second term would begin September 1st.) Tuition is billed at a flat rate every term. Students pay for time, not
by credit hour or by course.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 10
Learning Resources
WGU students use a variety of learning resources to acquire the skills and knowledge needed to complete
assessments. These learning resources come in a variety of forms, including, but not limited to:
● Textbooks
● Web-based tutorials
● Simulations
● Online classes
The majority of these learning resources are covered by the Learning Resource fee, and in some degree plans a lab
fee, with select textbooks not being covered. These resources are made available through partnerships with third-party
education providers.
Student Services
Students enrolling at WGU become much more than a student. They become a part of a community; of students, faculty,
mentors, and staff all united under one common goal: student success.
WGU has a Student Services team dedicated exclusively to helping students achieve their academic goals. The Student
Services Office is available during extended hours to assist students with general questions and administrative or
accessibility issues.
The Student Services team helps students resolve issues, listens to student issues and concerns, and makes
recommendations for improving policy and practice based on student feedback. The Student Services team provides a
formal means by which students can express their views, and those views in turn inform the decisions we make.
The Student Services team assists students with unresolved concerns to find equitable resolutions. Prior to contacting
the Student Services Office with a complaint, a student should always work first with his or her mentor. Mentors have the
expertise to guide students toward goals and direct them to the resources they need to be successful. If, however, a
student has an issue or problem that cannot be resolved by the mentor, the student is invited to contact the Student
Services Office.
To contact the Student Services team, please call 877.435.7948 or email studentservices@wgu.edu. Representatives
are available Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and Saturday from 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed Sunday).
Other services available to students include:
Mentoring
WGU will not leave students on their own to figure out what resources are available. Students have a dedicated partner
in their education: a mentor committed to connecting them with what is needed to succeed. Our mentoring program is
like nothing else in higher education.
Student Success Office
For students having issues or complaints that cannot be resolved by the student mentor, WGU’s Student Success Office
is available to help. Students always have an advocate for their success throughout the duration of their degree
program.
IT Service Desk
As an online university, technology plays a large role in operations. WGU’s IT Service Desk is available to help students
resolve any technology problem (call 877.435.7948 or email servicedesk@wgu.edu). The Service Desk is open Monday
through Friday, 6 AM to 10 PM MT and Saturday and Sunday, 10 AM to 7 PM MT .
WGU Student Assistance Program
WGU has partnered with the Wellness Corporation to provide WellConnect™, a free, voluntary, and confidential service
which offers counseling and support services to students. WellConnect provides support with a live clinician by phone
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 11
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Due to WGU’s online presence and lack of a physical campus, the WellConnect student
assistance program constitutes the extent of healthcare services available to WGU students.
Tools for Success
Students are given all the tools needed to reach out and network with their peers; including message boards, emails, a
student portal, and more.
Alumni Community
The Alumni Community provides benefits and resources as a free service to WGU graduates. Graduates have access to
the alumni community website when they register as a member. Membership is always free. The Alumni Relations
customer service team is always available to answer any questions or concerns.
Alumni Community website: http://alumni.wgu.edu
Alumni Relations team contact info: alumni@wgu.edu or 866-895-2085
Alumni and Student LinkedIn Group: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/51112
This is a closed group. Graduates and students must request to be added as a member.
Benefits and Resources for Graduates:
Networking Tools
Connect with other graduates using the alumni community website member directory or the LinkedIn alumni and student
group. Read fellow graduate stories, or submit individual stories to be featured on the website or in the alumni
newsletter. The alumni community website also lists upcoming local events.
Continuing Education
Access the alumni library, Skillport, and MindEdge One Hour Courses through the alumni community website. Look for
additional continuing education opportunities on the alumni community website benefits page, in the alumni newsletter,
and in announcement emails.
Discount Programs
WGU partners with many companies to offer exclusive discounts and benefits to our graduates. Visit the alumni
community website benefits page to browse available discounts.
Ongoing Communication
Stay connected to WGU via the alumni newsletter, WGU Night Owl blog, WGU Facebook page, and the WGU Twitter
feed.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Host a networking event, work with a student or prospective student who could use advice from someone who’s “been
there”, refer friends to WGU, or donate to the WGU alumni scholarship fund – 100% of donations go toward helping
future WGU students.
Career and Professional Development
WGU provides career assistance and resources to graduates and students. Career and Professional Development
(CPD) Specialists are available to assist students and graduates develop a career plan, implement job-search
strategies, and assist with the creation of marketing tools such as resumes, cover letters, and social media profiles.
Additionally, students and graduates have exclusive 24/7 self-service access to professional career resources, such as
resume development and practice interview software, self-assessments, and job banks. Live and recorded webinars are
also available on a variety of popular career and job search topics.
WGU Career and Professional Development Website: www.wgu.edu/careerservices
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 12
The WGU Career and Professional Development Center provides the following resources:
New Student Orientation to Western Governors University
WGU provides information on Career & Professional Development services to all new students during Orientation.
Students are invited to complete a voluntary survey regarding their career goals, current employment status and
experience level. Upon completing the survey, they are sent an email from the Career & Professional Development
Center guiding them to resources and inviting them to connect with a Career & Professional Development (CPD)
Specialist.
Career Resources Website
WGU students and graduates have access to the career resources website. Here, students and graduates can find
information, tools and resources covering a broad range of career and job search topics, including the WGU Job Board,
career planning, resume writing, interviewing, networking and applying to graduate school.
Weekly Career Webinars (WGU CareerWise Webinars)
Career & Professional Development offers weekly career webinars featuring top career authors and experts designed to
help students and graduates with all aspects of career management and the job search process. Webinars are
organized into tracks that allow for personalization based on the participant’s career needs and goals.
Individual Appointments with Career & Professional Development (CPD) Specialists
CPD Specialists provide a variety of services including: career planning, resume/cover letter assistance, interview
strategies, search tips and networking assistance.
Resume Assistance
Students and graduates have access to online information and tools to help them create customized and professional
resumes. In addition, CPD Specialists assist students/graduates individually by reviewing and critiquing their resumes.
Practice Interviews
CPD Specialists help prepare students/graduates to succeed in interviews by providing them with information on how to
interview and by conducting practice interviews with students/graduates. The Career & Professional Development
Center also offers practice interview software.
Access to National Job and Internship Postings
Students/graduates have access to the WGU Job Board which includes direct postings from employers as well as a job
aggregator. Students and graduates can perform a nation-wide search for entry-level through experienced-level jobs.
Networking Opportunities with WGU Alumni
WGU students/graduates can connect with WGU graduates and other students who have accounts with LinkedIn and/or
Facebook.
Information on Applying to Graduate School
The Career & Professional Development Center offers on-line resources and individual advising to students/graduates
interested in continuing their education via graduate school.
Note: WGU does not guarantee employment upon degree completion or provide placement services.
Library
The WGU Central Library makes its services and resources easily available to WGU students 24 hours a day through a
contractual arrangement with Jones eGlobal Library®. The library services offer access to article and E-book databases,
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 13
Online Reference Support (available 24/7 and staffed by professional librarians), Interlibrary Loan services, and the
Course E-reserves.
The library maintains major academic databases, giving students search and full-text access to academic materials
through Academic Search Complete, ABI/Inform, Applied Science and Technology Full Text, Art Full Text, Biography
Reference Bank, Business Abstracts with Full Text, Educational Full Text, CINAHL Plus with Full Text, General Science
Full Text, Humanities Full Text, Health Business Elite, Medline with Full Text, Ovid Journals, and Wilson Omnifile
Fulltext Mega. Ebrary, a subscription E-book provider, gives students access to over 74,000 full-text electronic books.
WGU’s interlibrary loan services provide our students access to the extensive collections of The University of Michigan
libraries. Once students locate books they want to use in their research, they can use the Michigan Information Transfer
Source interlibrary loan program to have the books delivered to their home. The library also provides WGU students with
access to over 94,000 full text e-books.
Facilities
As an online university, WGU does not have a physical campus or equipment other than its state-of-the-art computing
and networking resources to meet the needs of students working at a distance. Prospective students are informed of the
computer capacity requirements for successful access to all WGU systems and learning resources.
WGU Building Locations
WGU has various administrative offices placed throughout the United States with the headquarters located in Utah.
Arizona: 426 N 44th St, Ste. 150; Phoenix, AZ 85008 (enrollment center ONLY)
California: 2900 South Harbor Blvd., Suite 201; Santa Ana, CA 92704 (nursing lab ONLY)
Indiana: 10 W Market St, Ste. 1020; Indianapolis, IN 46204
Missouri: 8000 Maryland Ave, Ste. 410; St. Louis, MO 63105 (with enrollment center)
Nevada: 6795 S Edmond St, Floor 3; Las Vegas, NV 89118
Tennessee: 501 Corporate Centre Dr., Ste. 390; Franklin, TN 37067
Texas: 221 W 6th St, Ste. 1050; Austin, TX 78701 (with enrollment center)
Utah: 4001 S 700 E, Ste. 700; Salt Lake City, UT 84107 (with enrollment center)
Washington: 20435 72nd Ave. South, Suite 301; Kent, WA 98032
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 14
Admissions
General Admission Requirements
WGU opens its admission to as many students as possible who have the capacity and determination to complete a
rigorous WGU competency-based degree program. The admission process is designed to help the student and the
university reach an informed decision about a student’s likelihood of success.
For convenience, WGU starts new groups of students in most degree programs every month. Currently, WGU programs
do not require a minimum GPA (grade point average) or a specific score on either the SAT or the ACT.
Undergraduate Programs
Prospective students seeking admission to a WGU undergraduate degree program must be no less than 16 years of
age. Prospective students seeking admission to WGU undergraduate or graduate licensure degree programs must be
no less than 18 years of age at the time of clinical or field placement requirements. Furthermore, prospective students
may not be incarcerated in a state or federal penal institution. Prospective students must also meet all other general and
specific degree program admission requirements on the WGU website.
Graduate Programs
To be admitted to a WGU Teacher's College initial licensure graduate program, candidates for admission must submit
an official transcript with a baccalaureate degree posted to the transcript, and meet all content requirements based upon
prior transcript review where applicable. The baccalaureate degree must be from a regionally or nationally accredited
institution in the United States.
To be admitted to a WGU Teacher's College non-licensure or endorsement graduate program, candidates for admission
must submit an official transcript with a baccalaureate degree posted to the transcript. The baccalaureate degree must
be from a regional or national accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education (USDE) or a
foreign degree equivalent to a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution in the United States.
Candidates for admission into the educational leadership endorsement preparation program must also submit an official
transcript with a master’s degree posted to the transcript. Additionally, and where applicable, the candidate must provide
a copy of their active and unencumbered teaching license (if seeking an endorsement to the current license).
To be admitted to a WGU College of Health Professions graduate nursing program, candidates for admission must
submit an official transcript with a baccalaureate degree posted to the transcript. The baccalaureate degree must be in
nursing from a regionally or nationally accredited institution in the United States or a foreign degree equivalent to a
baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution in the United States.
To be admitted to a WGU College of Business or College of Information Technology graduate program, candidates for
admission must submit an official transcript with a baccalaureate degree posted to the transcript. The baccalaureate
degree must be from a regional or national accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education
(USDE) or a foreign degree equivalent to a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution in the United
States.
Official verification of the degree must be received on the 15th of the month prior to the first day of the term in order for a
student to be admitted for that term. Upon application to WGU, it is the student's obligation to immediately request an
official transcript from the institution that awarded the degree. Occasionally, a two week extension may be given in those
instances in which degrees have not yet been posted. Students who are given an extension, and fail to submit a
transcript with a degree posted, will be administratively withdrawn from the term.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/requirements
Steps and Deadlines for Enrollment
Below is the list of steps and their respective deadlines required for enrollment into an online degree program:
1. Apply for admission and pay the application fee. The application fee is $65. WGU accepts cash, checks, and web
checks/EFT at no additional cost. Credit cards (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express) are also accepted,
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 15
but a 2.75% credit card fee applies. The application fee must be paid before an application will be fully processed. Note:
WGU does not profit from application fees as they only offset a small portion of admission and enrollment costs.
2. Send in official transcripts. Provide a high school degree, GED or equivalent or transcripts from a prior college
experience are required if a student is seeking transfer credit, confirmation of sufficient background (for post-
baccalaureate and master’s licensure programs), or if looking to enroll into a graduate program.
Official transcript copies must arrive by the 1st of the month prior to the intended start date for evaluation. Please make
arrangements for the official copies to be sent to:
Western Governors University
ATTN: Transcripts Department
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
Note: If, for some reason, a student is unable or does not wish to send prior transcripts, an Enrollment or Admission
Counselor can advise on available options.
3. Complete the Readiness Assessment. The WGU Readiness Assessment is a three-part online test designed to
determine a student’s likelihood of success at WGU, testing competency in reading, writing, and math. An Enrollment
Counselor can answer questions regarding this assessment. Potential graduate students are not required to complete
the assessment.
4. Complete the Financial Aid application process (if necessary). If a student intends to use federal financial aid to cover
tuition expenses, they will need to complete WGU’s financial aid application process and be certified as eligible to
receive aid no later than the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start date. An Enrollment Counselor can direct a
student with financial aid questions to the proper department.
5. Interview with Enrollment Counselor. Individuals will have one or more interviews with a designated Enrollment
Counselor to review the student’s application, answer questions and explain institution expectations for online learning.
The calls ensure individuals have accurate and appropriate information about WGU, the program, and what will be
expected. In addition, a 20- to 30-minute Intake Interview will be required to finalize enrollment and officially establish a
program start date. (The Intake Interview needs to occur by the 15th of the month prior to the intended start date.)
6. Satisfy first tuition obligation. First tuition payment will be due by the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start
date. If planning to use financial aid, students need to start the financial aid process right after paying the application
fee. There is a payment plan available to those who are not using financial aid. WGU strongly encourages students to
make tuition arrangements or finish the financial aid process sooner than the 22nd as this will permit students to begin
orientation, Education Without Boundaries, at any time after the 15th of the month.
7. Complete Orientation. Once cleared to begin, students will begin Orientation. This orientation will acquaint students
with WGU’s unique competency-based academic approach and a link to the various learning resources utilized
throughout the program. Students should complete orientation before starting a program on the first of the month.
See the state and program-specific admission requirements below for additional admission requirements.
Teachers College Admission Requirements
The WGU Teachers College is a recognized leader in online teacher education with students all over the country. Below
are admission requirements specific to Teachers College programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions
requirements (also see Academic Programs section for additional program requirements).
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/tc_requirements
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Initial Teacher Certification
Students who are seeking initial teacher licensure in a bachelor’s, post-baccalaureate, or master’s program must also
pass a state-specific basic skills test for the state in which they live as a prerequisite to Demonstration Teaching (student
teaching). (Registering and paying for the test is the student’s responsibility.) This requirement can be met either prior to
admission or before beginning the Foundations of Teaching subject area once enrolled in the WGU program.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 16
WGU’s teacher licensure programs also include Demonstration Teaching (student teaching). Students must be at least
18 years of age before they may begin the application process or participate in Preclinical Experiences and
Demonstration Teaching. Students must also submit to a criminal background check prior to entering the classroom for
this component of the program.
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Endorsement:
If enrolled in a program that also includes a special endorsement (for example, the M.A. in Mathematics Education, with
an endorsement to teach 5-12 mathematics) and the student plans to eventually apply for the endorsement, the
following are required:
● A copy of a valid teaching license.
● Official transcripts demonstrating that a bachelor’s degree was earned from a recognized accredited university.
An Enrollment Counselor will instruct a student as to when and how to submit a teaching license prior to or during the
program. Students do not need to submit a copy of the license if they are not seeking the endorsement.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the B.A. Mathematics (5-9 or 5-12) Program
Students are required to show proof of having completed a college-level Pre-calculus or Calculus course with a C or
better.
WGU requires this prerequisite because research has determined that students entering this program need to have
demonstrated strong college-level mathematics abilities in order to handle the rigors of the challenging mathematics
curriculum. The mathematics in this program goes far beyond Calculus and is roughly equivalent to a mathematics
major.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the B.A. Science (5-9), B.A. Science (5-12, Geosciences), B.A. Science (5-12,
Biological Science) Programs
Students are required to show proof of having completed both a College Algebra course and a Natural Science course
with lab component (in Chemistry, Physics, Biology, or Geosciences) with a grade of C or better.
WGU requires these prerequisites because our research has determined that students entering these programs need to
have demonstrated their ability to handle the rigors of both a college-level mathematics course as well as a natural
science course with a lab component.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the B.A. Science (5-12, Chemistry), B.A. Science (5-12, Physics) Programs
Students are required to show proof of having completed both a Pre-Calculus or Calculus course and a Natural Science
course with lab component (in Chemistry, Physics, Biology, or Geosciences) with a grade of C or better.
WGU requires these prerequisites because our research has determined that students entering these programs need to
have demonstrated their ability to handle the rigors of both a college-level mathematics course as well as a natural
science course with a lab component.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership Program
Prior to entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership, students will be required to complete and submit the following
documents:*
● Leadership essay
● Case study and practicum agreement
● Supervising administrator verification document (students in Washington, Arkansas, California, Nevada, Ohio,
Oregon, Texas, Wisconsin, and Wyoming will use a different version)
*Note: Documents are available at http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/tc_requirements.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 17
Additional Requirements for Entry into Post-Baccalaureate or M.A. in Teaching Programs
To be considered eligible for enrollment into a Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program or M.A. in Teaching
degree program, students must provide official transcripts that demonstrate they have earned a bachelor’s degree from
a recognized accredited university and meet appropriate content requirements as described at
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/tc_requirements by subject area:
● Elementary Education (K-8)
● English
● Mathematics
● Science
● Social Science
College of Business Admission Requirements
Degrees from the College of Business emphasize mastery of the skills and knowledge that are essential for continued
advancement. Below are admission requirements specific to College of Business programs that are in addition to
WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/business_requirements
Special Requirements for WGU’s MBA Programs and M.S. Management and Leadership Program:
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from a recognized accredited institution.
● Submit a resume demonstrating at least three years of significant experience in business, industry, or a non-profit
organization.
Special Requirements for WGU’s MS Accounting Program
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree in accounting from a recognized, accredited institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s MS Integrated Healthcare Management Program:
● Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from a recognized, accredited institution.
● This degree is aimed at experienced healthcare professionals seeking a master's degree in healthcare
management to solidify their credentials and advance their career with specific knowledge in policy-driven patient
care improvements.
Note: There are no special admission requirements for entry into a bachelor's level business degree program.
College of Information Technology Admission Requirements
Degrees from the College of Information Technology incorporate up to 7 respected industry certifications, depending on
the program. Below are admission requirements specific to College of Information Technology programs that are in
addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/it_requirements
Special Requirements for WGU’s B.S. IT Programs:
● Possess a high school diploma or its equivalent.
● Demonstrate IT experience either through:
● An associate’s degree in IT or equivalent (A.S. or A.A.S. acceptable).
● A completed Udacity nanodegree in Data Analytics (applicable to the B.S. in Data Management/Data
Analytics degree only).
● High-level IT coursework completed within the last five years:
● Two or more upper-level networking courses; OR
● Two or more upper-level object-oriented programming courses (Java, C#, etc.); OR
● One or more upper-level operating systems courses; OR
● One or more upper-level information security and assurance courses.
● Hold high-level IT certification in network, security, programming, data management, operating systems, or
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 18
hardware management earned within the last five years.
● Submit a resume showing three-plus years of IT work experience.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Health Information Management Program:
● Possess a high school diploma or its equivalent.
● Demonstrate IT experience either through:
● Have earned an associate’s degree in IT or equivalent (A.S. or A.A.S. acceptable); OR
● Have earned an associate’s degree from an allied health program (A.S or A.A.S. acceptable); OR
● Have earned an associate’s degree in Business Administration (A.S or A.A.S. acceptable); OR
● Hold transferable IT certifications earned within the last five years; OR
● Submit a resume showing three-plus years of IT work experience, strategic business management
experience, or healthcare-related work experience.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from a regionally or nationally accredited institution.
● Demonstrate IT security experience through at least one of the following three methods:
● Have earned a bachelor’s degree in IT security or IT networking that covers at least two CISSP CBK
domains.
● Hold a CISSP, CCIE, CCNP, CCNA, CCNA Security, CEH, CHFI, GIAC 2700 or GCWN certification that is
valid and earned within the last five years.
● Submit a resume for review showing recent significant IT security experience, of at least three years, which
demonstrates at least two CISSP CBK domains.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. IT Management Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from a regionally or nationally accredited institution.
● Demonstrate IT networking experience through at least one of the following methods:
● A bachelor’s degree in information systems or information technology.
● Submit a resume for review showing at least 3 years of significant and recent IT experience.
● Verification of a current high-level certification such as: CCNA, MCSA, CEH or CISSP that has been earned
within the last 5 years.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Data Analytics Program:
● Possess a bachelor’s degree from a regionally or nationally accredited institution.
● Demonstrate experience with data analysis through at least one of the following methods:
● A bachelor’s degree in information systems, systems engineering, data management, data analysis, CS,
software, statistics, accounting/finance.
● Hold an Udacity nanodegree in data analytics.
● Submit a resume for review showing at least 3 years of significant and recent experience in data analysis.
● Verification of a current Oracle SQL, Oracle BI, or SAS certification that has been earned in the past five
years.
College of Health Professions Admission Requirements
College of Health Professions emphasizes mastery of the skills and knowledge that are essential to success. Below are
admission requirements specific to College of Health Professions programs that are in addition to WGU’s general
admission requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/health_requirements
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. in Nursing or M.S. Nursing (RN to MSN Option) Programs:
● Must possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing.
● Must possess a current, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license.
● Must submit a resume and be actively working as an RN at the time of application and enrollment.
● Must submit to a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com). California
residents are also required to provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 19
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing (Education, Leadership and Management, or Nursing Informatics)
Programs:
● Must possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN).
● Must possess a current, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license.
● Must submit a resume and be actively working as an RN at the time of application and enrollment.
● Must submit to a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com). California
residents are also required to provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Program:
Notice: There are limited clinical opportunities available in select hospitals in California, Texas, Florida*, Indiana and
Utah. Because of limited clinical opportunities, this is a highly selective program. Future expansion is planned in these
states and in additional states.
* Florida students please note: WGU is licensed by the Commission for Independent Education. Additional information
regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Commission at 325 West Gaines Street, Suite 1414,
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400, toll-free number (888) 224-6684.
WGU is now opening admission to aspiring nurses in these select areas who have completed all prerequisites as
outlined below. Enrollment into this program is conducted in two phases of admission: Pre-Nursing Curriculum and the
Clinical Nursing Program.
Pre-Nursing Enrollment Requirements:
Applicants must have a minimum of a 2.5 GPA in the required nursing sciences to be considered for enrollment into the
pre-nursing program. Successful completion of a nursing program admission exam is required prior to enrollment.
Enrollment in the university and in the pre-nursing term does not guarantee acceptance into the clinical nursing
program. Applicants are required to submit and/or complete the following items:
● Take and pass the ATI TEAS Exam with a minimum total score of 60% and a reading subtest score of at least 60.
● Submit a professional resume.
● Submit a letter of intent.
● Submit at least two professional letters of recommendation. It is strongly recommended that one letter of
recommendation come from a current or former employer either on the form provided or in a letter; the second
letter must come from a professional colleague and be completed on the form provided. Applicants who are
current employees of clinical partners must include a letter of recommendation from the clinical partner.
● Submit official transcripts from all previous institutions that show completion of required prerequisites.
Note: Preference will be given to those individuals with a prior college degree. All prerequisites must be complete before
an application for enrollment can be considered. Applicants who are not native speakers of English are required to take
appropriate tests of language proficiency.
Prelicensure Clinical Nursing Program Admission Requirements:
If a student meets the requirements above and wishes to be considered for admission into the Clinical Nursing Program,
they must be prepared to enroll, complete the Pre-Nursing Curriculum requirements, and apply for admission into the
program. Students must be at least 18 years of age before beginning the application process or participating in clinical
experiences.
Admission into the Clinical Nursing Program is competitive. Enrollment in the Pre-Nursing Curriculum is NOT a
guarantee for admission into the Clinical Nursing Program.
Approximately 60 days after enrollment into the Pre-Nursing Curriculum, if qualified, students must apply for admission
into the Clinical Nursing Program. To be considered for admission, the following support documentation must be
provided as part of the application process:
● Proof of health insurance.†
● Proof of successfully passing of a criminal background check*.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 20
● Proof of successfully passing a urine drug test*.
● Proof of a current immunization record and current negative TB test. To see which immunizations are required,
please visit http://www.wgu.edu/wgu/immunizations.
● Proof of meeting the specific physical requirements in accordance with the core performance standards of the
nursing profession. For examples, please visit http://www.wgu.edu/wgu/physical_requirements.
● Participation in an interview with an admissions committee comprised of two or three committee members
including the State Director of Nursing or designee.
† Note: Student malpractice insurance will be provided by WGU at no cost.
* Note: Starred items are required to be completed no sooner than 90 days prior to beginning the clinical portions of this
program.
Application and acceptance into the program is based on available clinical space, successful completion of all pre-
nursing term course requirements, and numerical ranking of the above items, including a WGU pre-nursing term mentor
recommendation.
LVN Advanced Placement and 30-Unit Option for California Students:
Licensed vocational nurses are eligible to participate in the 30-Unit Option Track, and persons who desire to pursue this
track must complete a total of 30 competency units in Science and Nursing courses. As stated in the BRN regulation
under 1429(a), vocational nurses seeking RN licensure must additionally provide to the Board evidence of courses in
Anatomy, Physiology, and Microbiology comparable to such courses required for licensure as a registered nurse.
Students expressing interest in the 30-unit option are required to meet with WGU’s California Director of Nursing. The
California Director, as a minimum, will objectively discuss the requirements for licensure, analyze previous courses that
students have completed, and counsel the students on their options for meeting eligibility requirements for becoming a
registered nurse. The 30-unit option is published online in the Student handbook (http://sh.wgu.edu/). Individuals
completing the 30-unit Option Track are eligible to take the NCLEX-RN licensing exam but are not considered graduates
of WGU’s Baccalaureate Degree Nursing Program. The 30-Unit Option is a non-degree option and no degree is
awarded by the University; however the 30 units completed will be provided to the student on an official University
transcript. RN licensure obtained through this option may not be recognized by other State Boards of Nursing.
The University’s model of education is built on the demonstration of competencies through rigorously developed
methods of assessments. Students can petition to take these assessments as a challenge exam for advanced
placement at the time they matriculate into the nursing program.
The LVN advance placement option allows the use of challenge examinations. The challenge exams provide applicants
with credit for previous education and the opportunity to obtain credit for other acquired knowledge. Once the applicant
is accepted into a cohort term the student can request advanced placement. The generic BSN program uses
assessments from the third party vendor ATI for all nursing content areas. Transfer students may challenge these
assessments upon admission if they have previously completed courses from an accredited college or university where
a grade of C or better was awarded. Once the assessment is passed, the student will be awarded credit by exam for the
respective nursing content associated with the assessment. All nursing courses may be challenged.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 21
State Regulatory Information
Western Governors University, in compliance with USDOE State Authorization Regulation Section 600.9, will continue to
make a “good faith effort” to receive state authorization or licensure in every state deemed necessary by the
administration and monitor developments in state laws where students reside.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/admissions_state_requirements
NC-SARA
Western Governors University formally became a member of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity
Agreements (NC-SARA) on October 14, 2016, which results in more efficiency in the state authorization process and
more educational options for our students. For additional information on NC-SARA please refer to their website:
http://nc-sara.org. Because WGU is based in Utah, our portal agency is the Utah System of Higher Education and all
NC-SARA complaints or grievances should be sent to the state as described below.
Students who have a complaint against Western Governors University should first file a complaint with the institution. If
Western Governors University does not resolve the complaint, students may file a complaint with the Utah Board of
Regents at www.higheredutah.org/sara. The Board of Regents will only consider complaints that were previously
unresolved by the institution and may refer a complaint to another agency for investigation.
Alabama
Western Governors University holds a Certificate of Approval from the Alabama Commission on Higher Education (PO
Box 302000; Montgomery, Alabama 36130-2000; 334-242-1998; www.ache.alabama.gov).
Western Governors University has been licensed by the Alabama Community College System (formerly the Department
of Postsecondary Education) pursuant to the Alabama Private School License Law, Code of Alabama, Title 16-46-1
through 10 (PO Box 302130; Montgomery, Alabama 36130-2130; 334-293-4500; www.accs.cc).
Alaska
Western Governors University is exempt from authorization requirements of the Alaska Commission on Postsecondary
Education (PO Box 110505; Juneau, Alaska 99811-0505; 907-465-2962; http://acpe.alaska.gov) under AS 14.48 and 20
AAC 17 as online or distance-delivered education, as it does not have a physical presence in the state.
Arizona
Western Governors University is approved by the Arizona State Board for Private Post-Secondary Education. If a
student complaint cannot be resolved after exhausting the Institution’s grievance procedure, the student may file a
complaint with the Arizona State Board for Private Post-Secondary Education. The student must Contact the State
Board for further details: 1400 W. Washington, Room 260; Phoenix, AZ 85007; Phone: 602-542-5709; Website:
www.azppse.gov
Arkansas
Western Governors University is certified by the Arkansas Higher Education Coordinating Board (423 Main Street, Suite
400; Little Rock, Arkansas 72201; 501-371-2000; www.adhe.edu). Arkansas Higher Education Coordinating Board
certification does not constitute an endorsement of any institution or program. Such certification merely indicates that
certain criteria have been met as required under the rules and regulations implementing institutional and program
certification as defined in Arkansas Code §6-61-301.
Students should be aware that degree programs may not transfer. The transfer of course/degree credit is determined
by the receiving institution.
California
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 22
Colorado
Western Governors University holds Full Authorization by the Colorado Commission on Higher Education (1560
Broadway, Suite 1600; Denver, Colorado 80202; 303-862-3005; http://highered.colorado.gov).
Connecticut
Western Governors University is registered to offer online courses/program to Connecticut residents through the
Connecticut Department of Higher Education (61 Woodland Street, Hartford, CT 06105-2326).
Delaware
Western Governors University has received full approval to operate with degree-granting authority in the State of
Delaware, pursuant to the authority granted to the Delaware Department of Education.
District of Columbia
Western Governors University holds a conditional exemption from the District of Columbia Higher Education Licensure
Commission “HELC” (810 First Street, NE, 2nd Floor, Washington, DC 20002). The conditional exemption is approved
under the provisions of DC Official Code 38-1310 (f).
Florida
Western Governors University is licensed by the Commission for Independent Education, Florida Department of
Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Commission at 325 West
Gaines Street, Suite 1414, Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400, toll-free telephone number (888)224-6684.
www.fldoe.org/policy/cie
Georgia
Western Governors University is authorized under the Nonpublic Postsecondary Education Institutions Act of 1990 by
the Georgia Nonpublic Postsecondary Education Commission (2082 East Exchange Place, Suite 220; Tucker, Georgia
30084-5305; 770-414-3300; www.gnpec.org).
Hawaii
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Hawaii Postsecondary Education Authorization Program.
Idaho
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Idaho State Board of Education.
Illinois
Western Governors University is exempt from the authorization requirements of the Illinois Board of Higher Education (1
North Old State Capitol Plaza, Suite 333; Springfield, Illinois 62701-1377; 217-782-2551; www.ibhe.org).
Indiana
Western Governors University, known in Indiana as “Western Governors University Indiana” or “WGU Indiana” was
chartered by Executive Order 10-04 of Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., Governor of the State of Indiana, on June 11, 2010.
This institution is authorized by: The Indiana Commission for Higher Education/The Indiana Board for Proprietary
Education 101 West Ohio Street, Suite 300 Indianapolis, IN 46204-4206.
Iowa
Western Governors University is registered with the Iowa College Student Aid Commission (603 East 12th Street, Fifth
Floor; Des Moines, IA 50319; 877-272-4456; www.iowacollegeaid.gov).
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 23
WGU is authorized, per the approval of the Iowa Board of Education, to offer under its educator preparation programs
for students seeking licensure as teachers and school administrators; however, these programs do not qualify graduates
for initial licensure in Iowa. Graduates must first be licensed in Utah, and may then apply for an Iowa license.
Kansas
Western Governors University is approved by the Kansas Board of Regents to operate in the state of Kansas (1000
Southwest Jackson, Suite 520; Topeka, KS 66612-1368; 785-430-4240; www.kansasregents.org).
Kentucky
Western Governors University is hereby licensed as an out of state postsecondary institution in accordance with KRS
164.945 - .947 and 13 KAR 1:020. This licensed is granted by the Kentucky Council on Postsecondary Education (1024
Capital Center Dr. #320, Frankfort, KY 40601-7512).
Louisiana
Western Governors University is currently licensed by the Board of Regents of the State of Louisiana. Licenses are
renewed by the State Board of Regents every two years. Licensed institutions have met minimal operational standards
set forth by the state, but licensure does not constitute accreditation, guarantee the transferability of credit, nor signify
that programs are certifiable by any professional agency or organization.
Maine
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Maine Department of Education.
Maryland
Western Governors University is registered with the Maryland Higher Education Commission to enroll Maryland
residents in fully online distance education programs (6 North Liberty Street, 10th Floor; Baltimore, Maryland 21201;
410-767-3301; www.mhec.state.md.us).
Western Governors University is subject to investigation of complaints by the Office of the Attorney General of the
Maryland Higher Education Commission. Contact the Maryland Attorney General at: Consumer Protection Division; 200
St. Paul Place; Baltimore, Maryland 21202; consumer@oag.state.md.us; Consumer Protection Hotline: 410-528-8662;
http://www.marylandattorneygeneral.gov/pages/cpd/complaint.aspx
Massachusetts
Western Governors University is approved by the Massachusetts Department of Higher Education (One Ashburton
Place, Room 1401; Boston, MA 02108; 617-994-6950).
Michigan
Western Governors University operates under the terms of SARA in the state of Michigan.
Minnesota
Western Governors University is registered with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education pursuant to sections 136A.61
to 136A.71. Registration is not an endorsement of the institution. Credits earned at the institution may not transfer to all
other institutions.
Mississippi
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Mississippi Commission on College Accreditation.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 24
Missouri
Western Governors University, known in Missouri as “Western Governors University Missouri” or “WGU Missouri” was
established by Executive Order 13-04 of Jay Nixon, Governor of the State of Missouri, on February 15, 2013.
Western Governors University is approved to operate online degree programs by the Missouri Department of Higher
Education (205 Jefferson Street, P.O. Box 1469; Jefferson City, MO 65102-1469; info@dhe.mo.gov)
Montana
Western Governors University is authorized by the Board of Regents of the Montana University System to offer post-
secondary degree programs in the state of Montana (2500 Broadway; Helena, Montana 59620-3201; 406-444-6570;
http://mus.edu).
Nebraska
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Nebraska Coordinating Commission for Postsecondary Education.
Nevada
Western Governors University, known in Nevada as “Western Governors University Nevada” or “WGU Nevada” was
established by an Executive Proclamation of Brian Sandoval, Governor of the State of Nevada, on June 16, 2015.
New Hampshire
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
New Hampshire Division of Higher Education.
New Jersey
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
New Jersey Secretary of Higher Education.
New Mexico
Western Governors University holds a Provisional Approval to operate from the New Mexico Higher Education
Department (2044 Galisteo Street, Suite 4; Santa Fe, New Mexico 87505-2100; 505-476-8400; www.hed.state.nm.us).
New York
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
New York Office of College and University Evaluation.
North Carolina
A Tuition Guarantee Bond for North Carolina is held at the office of the president in Salt Lake City, UT and is reviewable
upon request to those wishing to see it during business hours.
University of North Carolina Board of Governors
University of North Carolina
Office of the President
910 Raleigh Road
Chapel Hill, NC 27515
Website: www.northcarolina.edu/bog/index.htm
Student complaints with the state may be submitted to:
North Carolina Post-Secondary Education Complaints
University of North Carolina General Administration
c/o Student Complaints
910 Raleigh Road
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 25
Chapel Hill, NC 27515-268
(919) 962-4550
Email: studentcomplaint@northcarolina.edu
Website: http://www.northcarolina.edu/complaints
North Dakota
Western Governors University is exempt from the authorization regulations of the North Dakota University System (1815
Schafer Street, Suite 202; Bismarck, North Dakota 58505-0230; 701-224-2498; www.ndus.edu).
Ohio
Western Governors University has been authorized by the Ohio Board of Regents to offer various degrees through
distance education (25 South Front Street; Columbus, Ohio 43215; 614-466-6000; www.ohiohighered.org).
Oklahoma
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education.
Oregon
Western Governors University is approved to offer online degree programs by the Oregon Higher Education
Coordinating Commission (775 Court St, NE; Salem, OR 97301; www.oregon.gov/HigherEd).
Pennsylvania
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Pennsylvania Department of Education.
Rhode Island
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Rhode Island Council on Postsecondary Education.
South Carolina
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
South Carolina Commission on Higher Education.
Residents of South Carolina may access a complaint form through the website of the Commission: http://
www.che.sc.gov/CHE_Docs/AcademicAffairs/License/Complaint_procedures_and_form.pdf. The form must be
completed, signed, and notarized. It may be submitted with the required documentation to Postsecondary Institution
Licensing, South Carolina Commission on Higher Education, 1122 Lady Street, Suite 300, Columbia, SC 29201.
South Dakota
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
South Dakota Secretary of State – Postsecondary Education.
Tennessee
Western Governors University, known in Tennessee as “Western Governors University Tennessee” or “WGU
Tennessee” was established through a Memorandum of Understanding between Bill Haslam, Governor of the State of
Tennessee, and Robert W. Mendenhall, President of Western Governors University, on July 9, 2013.
Texas
Western Governors University, known in Texas as “Western Governors University Texas” or “WGU Texas” was
established by Executive Order RP 75 of Rick Perry, Governor of the State of Texas, on August 3, 2011.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 26
Utah
Western Governors University has met the requirements of Utah Code Ann §13-34a-204 to be a registered
postsecondary school required under 34 C.F.R. 600.9 to be legally authorized by the State of Utah.
Vermont
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
Vermont Department of Education.
Virginia
Due to a lack of physical presence in the state, Western Governors University is not required to seek approval from the
State Council of Higher Education for Virginia.
Washington
Western Governors University, known in Washington as “Western Governors University Washington” or “WGU
Washington” was established by the passing of Substitute House Bill 1822, effective on July 22, 2011, with the approval
of Christine Gregoire, Governor of the State of Washington.
West Virginia
Western Governors University has been authorized by the West Virginia Higher Education Policy Commission (1018
Kanawha Boulevard East, Suite 700; Charleston, West Virginia 25301; 304-558-2101; www.hepc.wvnet.edu).
Wisconsin
Western Governors University has been approved to do business in Wisconsin as a private school, subject to the
provisions of Wisconsin Statutes 38.50 and all administrative rules adopted pursuant to the statutes, by the Educational
Approval Board (201 West Washington Avenue, 3rd Floor; Madison, Wisconsin 53703; 608-266-1996;
http://eab.state.wi.us).
Wyoming
Western Governors University is registered with the Wyoming Department of Education (Hathaway Building, 2nd Floor;
2300 Capitol Avenue; Cheyenne, Wyoming 82002-0050; 307-777-7675; http://edu.wyoming.gov) as required by
Wyoming statute (§§ W.S. 21-2-401 through 21-2-407).
Puerto Rico
Western Governors University is exempt from licensing jurisdiction of the Puerto Rico Council on Education (PO Box
19900; San Juan, PR 00910-1900; 787-641-7100; www.ce.pr.gov).
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 27
Tuition and Financial Aid
Tuition and Fees
WGU charges tuition at a flat rate every term. Special fees apply to select programs.
As of March 1, 2017:
All Teachers College Programs: $2,890 per term
Information Technology Programs: $2,890 per term
Business and Health Bachelor’s Programs: $2,890 per term
Business Master’s Programs: $3,250 per term
Nursing Programs (MSN and BSN): $3,250 per term
B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure): $4,250 per term
Resource Fee: $145 per term
Application Fee: $65 (one time)
WGU Transcript Order: $5
Note: WGU does not “profit” from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admission
costs. WGU charges a $145 Resource Fee each term. This fee helps cover the use of the online library, e-textbooks,
and many other learning resources. With few exceptions, required textbooks are available as e-textbooks, so students
won’t have to purchase hard copy textbooks.
Special Fees: (apply to select programs)
Science Lab Fee: $350 (one time)
Individuals pursuing a bachelor's or master's degree in science education will require a home science lab and will be
assessed this one-time charge (billed separately along with the first term's tuition).
Consolidated Nursing Program Fee: $350 (one time)
Individuals pursuing a nursing degree (with the exception of the Prelicensure B.S. Nursing degree) will be assessed a
one-time charge per degree (billed separately along with the first term's tuition). This one-time fee covers any and all
additional expenses related to nursing coursework. These can include lab work, third-party exams, and selected
learning resources.
Prelicensure Nursing Clinical Education Fee: $500 (per term)
Individuals pursuing a B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) degree will be assessed a fee at the start of each 6-month term to
cover the costs of the program’s clinical education requirements. This fee supports such components as high-fidelity lab
simulations, clinical placement, and the coached clinical intensive model, which allows students who work to be enrolled
in a clinical experience.
Demonstration Teaching (standard): $1,000
Individuals enrolled in a Teachers College program that includes student teaching must pay a $100 application fee per
cohort, plus a $900 demonstration teaching cohort fee prior to their in-classroom teaching practicum.
Educational Leadership Practicum: $1,000 (one time)
Individuals in the Educational Leadership Endorsement Preparation program or the master of science program will be
assessed this fee upon enrollment in the practicum course(s).
B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Fees:
● ATI TEAS Exam: $115 (at PSI Testing Centers; cost differs at other sites)
● Prelicensure Nursing Clinical Education Fee: $500 (per term)
● Uniforms: $146.30 (plus shipping, handling and applicable taxes)
● iTouch unit or handheld device that is compatible with Nursing Central Software (cost varies)
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 28
● Lab kit fees: $263.09
● Drug Screen, Criminal Background Check, and Immunization Tracking System: $94**
Students may also be required to pay for doctor’s visit for a physical examination and immunizations to fulfill specific
admissions requirements.
Note: ** Price includes one alias search. There will be a separate charge for each additional alias search. Due to
expenses associated with accessing court documents, the fees for students in the following states will be as follows: ME
($31), MI ($10), NH ($60), NV ($12), NY ($67), SD ($15), VT ($30), and WY ($25). Fees are subject to change.
Tuition Payment and Financial Policies
WGU Financial Policy
Western Governors University is dedicated to providing the best possible education and service to our students. A
complete understanding of financial responsibilities is an essential element of a student’s education.
The WGU Student Financial Services office is committed to assisting all student account needs; however, students have
the primary responsibility to make sure their tuition is paid on time each term.
Payment is Required at the Beginning of Each Term
Tuition for the full term is due by the 1st day of each term. For new students, financial clearance is due on or before the
22nd of the month proceeding the first day of the first term. Acceptance of term registration confirms agreement to pay
tuition in full.
For a small enrollment fee, WGU offers a payment plan for those who cannot pay in full by the required date. To enroll in
a payment plan, choose the “Make or View Payments” link on the resources tab of the student portal. Payment or
payment plan participation is required by the first day of each new term. Students in an active bankruptcy are not eligible
for a WGU payment plan.
Payment Deadlines
Payments received or payment arrangements must be completed on the student portal by:
● New student with first term tuition - 22nd day of month prior to term start.
● Renewal term tuition - 1st day of the term.
Financial Aid
It is the student's responsibility to apply for and submit all forms required by the Financial Aid Office and be aware of
deadlines for submission. Application for financial aid is not a guarantee of funding. In the event a student is approved
for financial aid and is underfunded or becomes ineligible for financial aid funds, they are responsible for the financial
obligation on their account. Regardless of the status of a financial aid file, it is the student’s responsibility to ensure that
tuition and fees are paid by the appropriate deadline.
Payment Methods
WGU accepts cash, checks, and web checks/EFT at no additional cost to the student. Credit cards (Visa, MasterCard,
Discover, and American Express) are also accepted, but a 2.75% credit card fee applies. Students may make payments
through the “Make or View Payments” link in the online student portal. WGU does not accept post-dated checks. WGU
will not hold any check for deposit past the date of the receipt of the check. WGU will not be responsible for any bank
fees associated with the deposit of said check. To protect student's financial records, WGU does NOT accept payments
over the phone, under any circumstance.
Refunds
If a student is eligible for a refund, the Student Financial Services office will adjust the tuition charges and issue the
refund, as applicable. Funds reimbursed to the student are reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., tuition paid
by check is refunded via check, and tuition paid by credit card is refunded to the credit card used for payment. In the
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 29
case of financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the appropriate grant or loan
program based on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this calculation, students may
owe WGU a portion of tuition and fees that are not covered. All funding sources including scholarships - both internal
and external, waivers, discounts and grants are subject to Return of Title IV calculation. In the case of third party funds;
i.e., employer contributions, government funding, military payments, etc, WGU will first verify with the original payer for
the appropriate handling of the refund. The student is responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed after
refunds to all payers.
Billing and Account Statements
A WGU student account billing notice is generated each time a charge or a charge adjustment is applied to a student
account. Billing notices are delivered to myWGU student e-mail accounts and can be found in the ‘Make or View
Payments” link on the resources tab in of the student portal. Monthly account statement notifications are delivered on
approximately the 17th day of each month. Notice of monthly account statements is delivered to myWGU student e-mail
accounts.
Past Due Accounts
Tuition for the full term is due by the 1st day of each term. Any account not paid in full, awarded financial aid funding or
other third party guarantor, or enrolled in an authorized myPAYMENT PLAN is past due on the 2nd day of the term. Past
due accounts may be assessed a late fee and may be placed on financial hold for non-payment. Failure to complete
payment or payment arrangements with WGU may result in administrative withdrawal.
Automatic Enrollment Confirmation/Not Attending Cancellation for Renewal Term Students
Tuition for renewal terms will be automatically charged on the first day of the term. Thus, if a student will not be
attending a subsequent term, it is necessary for the student to notify their mentor by telephone or email prior to term
enrollment for the term. Once the student has completed term enrollment with the mentor, the student will be liable for
charges incurred.
Returned Checks
Payment of tuition or fees with a check that is subsequently returned from the bank unpaid will result in a returned check
fee. A student may not satisfy a returned check obligation with a personal check. After two returned checks, Western
Governors University will no longer accept a personal check for payment on the student account. All future payments
must be made via credit card or money order. Failure to clear a returned check taken in payment for tuition or fees will
result in administrative withdrawal from WGU. Once this action is taken, the student cannot be reinstated for the term.
The student will owe the prorated portion of tuition in addition to other collection costs and charges necessary for the
collection of the returned check. A student may then apply for re-enrollment for the following term when all balances are
resolved.
Delinquent Accounts
Failure to meet financial obligations of any kind to the university may result in a financial hold and suspension of future
services including enrollment for subsequent terms. In addition delinquent accounts may be referred to a collection
agency and the student will be responsible for additional late payment charges, interest, attorney's fees, and other costs
and charges necessary for the collection of any amount not paid when due.
Transcripts and Records Policy for Students with Unresolved Financial Obligations
In the event of an unresolved balance of any nature on the student's account the following records will not be released:
diplomas, transfer of university competencies and transcripts of university competencies. These records will not be
released until the balance is paid in full or the past due balance is resolved. When all financial obligations are resolved,
the student is again eligible to receive transcripts and all university services.
http://www.wgu.edu/tuition_financial_aid/financial_aid
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 30
Student Financial Aid Requirements
WGU is approved by the U.S. Department of Education to offer federal student aid. Because of our more affordable
tuition, WGU students are able to graduate without large amounts of student debt to repay. Federal student aid will
cover most, if not all, direct education expenses.
Financial Aid can be used for:
● Tuition and fees, including electronic learning materials
● Textbooks
● Technology
● Other educational expenses
To receive consideration for any federal student aid program, students must first file the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA) at https://fafsa.ed.gov). When students fill out the FAFSA, they are applying for aid for a specific
year; therefore, they will need to renew the FAFSA application each award year.
Most WGU students qualify for at least one type of federal aid. To be eligible for federal student aid (grants, loans, and
work-study funds), students must meet the following requirements established by the U.S. Department of Education:
● demonstrate financial need (for most programs);
● be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen;
● have a valid Social Security number (with the exception of students from the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau);
● be registered with Selective Service, if you’re a male (you must register between the ages of 18 and 25);
● be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a regular student in an eligible degree or certificate program;
● be enrolled at least half-time to be eligible for Direct Loan Program funds;
● maintain satisfactory academic progress in college or career school;
● sign the certification statement on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) stating that
● you are not in default on a federal student loan and do not owe money on a federal student grant and
● you will use federal student aid only for educational purposes; and
● show you’re qualified to obtain a college or career school education by
● having a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent such as a General Educational Development
(GED) certificate;
● completing a high school education in a homeschool setting approved under state law (or—if state law does
not require a homeschooled student to obtain a completion credential—completing a high school education
in a homeschool setting that qualifies as an exemption from compulsory attendance requirements under
state law); or
● enrolling in an eligible career pathway program and meeting one of the "ability-to-benefit" alternatives
described at https://studentaid.ed.gov/sa/eligibility/basic-criteria#ability-to-benefit.
Satisfactory Academic Progress
In accordance with federal and state student aid regulations, a student must maintain satisfactory academic progress to
qualify for financial aid. Satisfactory academic progress (SAP) is a measurement of student progress toward the
completion of a degree or certificate program. A quantitative measure is based on the number of competency units a
student completed divided by the total number of units for which a student enrolled cumulatively over the student's
academic career at WGU. It is an academic success indicator and a financial aid requirement. Federal regulations
require that all students who receive financial aid maintain satisfactory academic progress.
Students receive a mark of Pass or Not Passed on their permanent academic record for any courses of study for which
they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment. A grade of Pass indicates that the student has
demonstrated competency at a grade equivalent of “B” or better. Grades of Not Passed are counted as units that are
failed and are counted against satisfactory academic progress.
Maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress
SAP is evaluated at the end of every term and at the time of a withdrawal from the university. To maintain good standing
for SAP, students must achieve an overall minimum cumulative pass rate of 66.67% for all competency units for which
they enrolled. Students are ineligible to receive federal financial aid for a period longer than 150% of the published
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 31
length of the program. A change in program will not affect a student’s SAP standing. Students who are requesting re-
entry into the university will return with the SAP status calculated at the time of withdrawal. Students who fail to maintain
SAP are placed on probation and may be suspended from federal financial aid eligibility according to the following
criteria:
First Term Students*
● First term students who finish their first term with a cumulative SAP of less than 50% are automatically terminated
from Federal Financial Aid.
● First term students who complete at least 50% of attempted competency units, but fail to complete the 66.67%
required for good standing for SAP are placed on warning for the following term and remain eligible for financial
aid.
*Note: First term students include WGU graduates in the first term of additional degree or certificate programs.
Continuing Students**
Continuing students who begin a term in good standing whose cumulative SAP falls below 66.67 percent but not lower
than 50% are placed on warning for the following term and remain eligible for federal financial aid. Students in a warning
term who achieve a cumulative completion rate of at least a 66.67% are returned to good academic standing. Students
in a warning term with completion rates below the 66.67% cumulative SAP are terminated from financial aid eligibility.
**Note: Continuing students are those that are enrolled beyond the first term in degree or certificate programs.
Students who are terminated from financial aid eligibility may continue their studies at WGU but are required to self-pay
and make payment arrangements through the Bursar’s office. In the case of extenuating circumstances, students may
appeal their termination status to the Financial Aid Appeals Committee.
Scholarship and Grant Recipients
Most scholarships and grants do not allow for a warning term. Failure to meet SAP in any given term can result in
termination of scholarship or grant funds. Please refer to the scholarship or grant materials or contact the scholarship
department at scholarships@wgu.edu for additional information.
Scholarships
Scholarship awards issued by Western Governors University are financial awards provided to students to help them
meet a portion of their tuition costs. Awards are limited to the amount of the scholarship, and depending on the amount,
the scholarship may or may not cover all tuition and fees. Students are responsible for paying any tuition charges not
covered by their scholarship. Unused scholarship monies will not be refunded to the student.
http://www.wgu.edu/tuition_financial_aid/scholarships
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 32
Academic Policies
Credit Transfer Guidelines
Policy for granting credit for previous education, training, and experience:
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transferring
WGU does not grant credit for prior training or experience. However, students who enter with significant experience in
their field of study may be able to pass some of the required WGU assessments on an accelerated schedule. Transfer
guidelines are described below in excerpts from the WGU website.
Transferability of Credit; Credit Transfer Limitations
Western Governors University is a special purpose institution whose mission is “…to improve quality and expand access
to post-secondary educational opportunities by providing a means for individuals to learn independent of time and place
and to earn competency-based degrees and other credentials that are credible to both academic institutions and
employers.”
This purpose does not include preparing students for further college study. Students should be aware that transfer of
credit is always the responsibility of the receiving institution. Any student interested in transferring credit hours should
check with the receiving institution directly to determine to what extent, if any, credit hours can be transferred.
WGU maintains great relations with community colleges throughout the United States. Information about community
college transfers is available at http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/cc_transfer.
General Transfer Guidelines
For undergraduate programs, a personal evaluation of transcripts from prior colleges will be needed to determine
whether credits will be able to clear any degree requirements. See below for more specific guidelines.
WGU does not accept transfer credit at the graduate (master’s) level. (Transcripts are still required for proof of
completion of a bachelor’s degree.)
WGU will not complete unofficial transcript evaluations. Speaking to an Enrollment Counselor will allow students to get a
general idea of what might be able to transfer, but students will be required to submit official copies of their transcripts
for an official evaluation. To have an official transcript evaluation completed, students will need to complete the online
application form and pay the application fee of $5.
Completed Courses Or A Degree
If students hold an Associate of Arts (AA) or Associate of Science (AS) degree from a school that is recognized by
CHEA (Council on Higher Education Accreditation), then they should clear most of the lower-division general education
requirements for a bachelor’s degree in Business or Information Technology. This is also true for select Teachers
College programs if the degree is regionally accredited or DETC-accredited.
Having earned an A.A.S. (or other applied associate’s degree), students may be able to clear a significant portion of
WGU’s lower-division degree requirements.
If students have completed college courses but not earned a degree of any type, they may also be able to clear some
degree requirements through a course-by-course transcript evaluation.
The Transcripts Department must receive official transcripts by the 1st of the month prior to the start date of the
program. (If seeking a degree leading to teacher licensure, the deadline for transcripts is the 10th of the month prior to
program start.) It is a student’s obligation to request official transcripts from the institutions previously attended. WGU
requests that students order transcripts as soon as possible. Transcripts should be mailed directly from the sending
institution to the following address:
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 33
Transcripts Department
Western Governors University
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107
Transcripts Department Phone: 1.877.435.7948, ext. 3102
Teachers College Transfer Guidelines
For the following programs:
● B.A. Interdisciplinary Studies (K-8)
● B.A. Special Education (K-12)
Up to 58 CUs cleared through transfer waivers through an AA or AS degree in Teacher Education.
Students may clear up to 43 CUs in the Lower-Division Domains, plus the following Education course areas:
Course of Study:
● School and Society
● Diversity and Inclusion
● Human Development and Learning
● Classroom Management
● Testing
Note: A course-by-course evaluation will be needed to verify that teacher licensure requirements are met.
For the following programs:
● B.A. Mathematics (5-9 or 5-12)
● B.A. Science (5-9)
● B.A. Science (Chemistry, 5-12)
● B.A. Science (Physics, 5-12)
● B.A. Science (Biological Science, 5-12)
● B.A. Science (Geosciences, 5-12)
Up to 58 CUs may be cleared through transfer waivers from an AA or AS degree in Teacher Education.
Students may clear up to 43 CUs in the Lower-Division Domains, plus the following Education course areas:
Course of Study:
● Schools and Society
● Diversity and Inclusion
● Human Development and Learning
● Classroom Management
● Testing
Note: Students may also clear one additional course in a major.
College of Information Technology Guidelines
For bachelor’s-level IT degree programs:
Up to 61 CUs may be cleared through transfer waivers with an AA or AS degree in Information Technology (if earned
within the last 5 years).
Students may clear up to 40 CUs in the Lower-Division Domains, plus the following IT course areas:
Course of Study:
● IT Fundamentals I
● IT Fundamentals II
● Web Programming
● Introduction to Programming I
● Introduction to Programming II
● Networking I
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 34
College of Business Guidelines
For bachelor’s-level business degree programs:
Up to 60 CUs may be cleared through transfer waivers with an AA or AS degree in Business.
Students may clear up to 40 CUs in the Lower-Division Domains, plus the following Business course areas:
Course of Study:
● Business Applications for Finance, Accounting and Information Technology
Health Professions Guidelines
For the B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN):
Up to 92 CUs may be cleared through transfer waivers with an AA or AS degree plus an active RN license. Students
may be eligible for additional transfer credits based on additional degrees or coursework. Students with an ADN may
need a course-by-course evaluation.
Incoming students with a complete liberal arts background and an RN will typically clear upon transfer of all
assessments EXCEPT:
Course of Study:
● Evidence-based Practice and Applied Nursing Research
● Nutrition for Contemporary Society
● Professional Roles and Values
● Health Assessment
● Care of the Older Adult
● Community and Population Health
● Information Management and the Application of Technology
● Community Health Nursing Practicum
● Organizational System and Quality Leadership
● Leadership Experience
● Professional Portfolio
For the B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) – For those pursuing an initial RN license (available only in limited areas):
Up to 7 CUs may be cleared through transfer waivers with an AA or AS degree. Students may be eligible for additional
transfer credits based on additional degrees or coursework.
Because of state and Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) guidelines, the AA or AS degree will
typically clear only the following:
Course of Study:
● Language and Communication: Part I:Foundations
● Literature, Arts and the Humanities Part I:
● Quantitative Literacy: College Algebra, Measurement and Geometry
Note: Additional coursework in nursing content areas (e.g. Anatomy and Physiology) may waive additional requirements.
Transfer Credit for Military Experience/Training in Prelicensure Nursing
During military veterans’ transcript reviews, military service records and credits-by-exam will be considered when
determining the quantity and quality of applicable competencies in concert with federal, state and local laws, affiliate
accrediting body standards, and respective state boards of nursing rules and regulations, such that the maximum
competency units (per WGU’s transfer policy) may be granted to pre-licensure nursing students. Credit will be limited to
didactic course work and will not be extended to credit for clinical experiences.
The following information is provided to assist military veterans with healthcare experience in obtaining advance
placement into the Pre-licensure Bachelor of Science Nursing program.
To be considered for advanced placement, a request for advanced placement related to military healthcare experience
must be completed within two years following discharge as evidenced by Form DD-214. Program prerequisites must be
completed and ATI TEAS Exam must be passed. An individual appointment with the Program Director or designee is
required.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 35
Veterans with military healthcare experience and a Licensed Vocational Nurse (LVN):
● Transcripts and experience will be reviewed by WGU personnel.
● Credit may be given for previous coursework per WGU’s admissions policy. Such exchange will be limited to
general education courses.
● Demonstration of competencies must be met via the university’s challenge exam process. The college has
established the maximum number of competency units that may be challenged.
● The program (WGU) will determine the course(s) the veteran or corpsman must complete based on the criterion
established by the college.
● Admissions to the program is on a space available basis and is not guaranteed.
● All general education and requirements must be completed prior to admission into the BSN program.
Veterans with military healthcare experience and not licensed (not an LVN):
● Transcripts and experience will be reviewed by WGU personnel.
● Challenge exams of each course may be requested by the student to demonstrate competency. A course
overview will be given prior to the exam. The college has established the maximum number of competency units
that may be challenged.
● No challenges will be permitted for experiential learning units (clinical experiences).
● Successful completion of the theory test will be followed by a dosage calculation competency examination.
● Upon successful completion of the tests, a skills assessment of all skills required in first term will be given.
When all criteria have been met, the student will be eligible to progress into the program.
Transferring from WGU
WGU students who may be interested in transferring to another institution—either before or after completing their
studies at WGU—should keep in mind the following points:
● All institutions reserve the right to determine their own transfer policies, and not all academic work completed at
one institution may transfer to another.
● Students should check the transfer policies at the institution or institutions they are considering by consulting with
the admissions or registrar office at those institution(s).
● Students who transfer should request that the WGU registrar send an official transcript of their WGU academic
work to the institution(s) where they are applying for admission.
● The WGU transcript will note subject areas (domains) that were successfully completed. Credit equivalencies for
the completed domains will be listed.
Term Registration and Enrollment
Term registration and enrollment is the process of selecting courses and verifying that students are enrolled for the term.
Students register prior to a term by working with their mentor to schedule the set of courses to be completed. Students
then accept enrollment for the term on or after the 1st day of the new term. Term enrollment must be completed no later
than the10th day of the start of the term for continuing students and the 20th day of the start of the term for new
students. Once term enrollment is established, students are considered enrolled for the term and are responsible for
tuition charges. Once students have enrolled in a term, they are committed to the courses and changes to enrollment
will not be processed. Students who do not complete registration and enrollment for the new term are administratively
withdrawn from the University.
Scheduled Completion Date
The scheduled completion date is the date that appears on the degree plan in the Assessment Scheduled Date column
once students have scheduled a proctored assessment or once a Taskstream task is released. To schedule proctored
assessments, students submit a request via the degree plan following current guidelines. It is important to note that all
scheduling requests for proctored assessments require mentor approval by the 20th day of the 6th month. All course
assessments must be submitted or taken by the 25th day of the sixth month of the term in order to allow for grading and
posting of course results by the last day of the term.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 36
Working Ahead or Accelerating Courses of Study
Students may accelerate their studies by adding additional courses to the term once they have successfully completed
all term requirements (original term enrollment). Students who choose to add additional courses to the term should
discuss course acceleration in detail with their mentor because, accelerated courses not passed before the end of the
term will receive a mark of Not Passed on the academic transcript and the courses will count against satisfactory
academic progress for Financial Aid (where applicable).
Marks of Not Passed
Students are responsible for making sure they complete all courses for which they are enrolled in a term. Students may
request to schedule a proctored assessment by the 15th day of the 6th month. Students are required to take or submit
all course assessments by the 25th day of the last month of their term. Students who do not take the scheduled course
assessment on time will receive a mark of Not Passed for the course. The mark of Not Passed does not become part of
students’ academic records as long as the course assessment is passed at another time during the term. When the
course assessment is not passed before the term ends, a mark of Not Passed will become part of the permanent
academic record and transcript. In rare circumstances, students may appeal for an additional seven days to finalize a
course.
Passing Assessments before Enrolling in a Term
Students are responsible for making sure they complete all course assessments for which they have enrolled in during
the term. Students who continue to work on a course(s) after a new term begins, and earn a pass on the course, must
enroll in the course in the new term, including other courses adding up to full-time registration (12 Competency Units at
the undergraduate level and 8 Competency Units at the graduate level). Students who seek to withdraw or go on term
break will have the completed course(s) and passed course assessment(s) removed from their record. Further, all
submissions in Taskstream made after the new term begins will be removed. Students returning from term break, or
who are granted readmission to the university, must repeat the course(s) and will be held to current passing course
requirements.
Passing Vendor Assessments/Certifications not Enrolled in Current Term
Students who attempt and pass a course with a vendor assessment(s)/certification(s) without enrolling in the course in
the term shall receive the grade of ‘Requirement Satisfied’ (RS). The grade of RS does not count toward Satisfactory
Academic Progress or Competency Units in registration.
Students who attempt a course-related vendor assessment(s)/certification(s), or take any other third-party assessment
(i.e. PRAXIS) without course enrollment and/or referring through WGU’s Assessment Scheduling Procedures will not
have the cost of the exam/voucher(s) paid nor reimbursed by WGU.
Attendance Policy
WGU does not have an institutional attendance policy. Progress is governed not by attending a class, but by
successfully completing assessments that demonstrate mastery of the required competencies. Students engage in a
variety of learning resources to build competency and prepare for the assessments. In most cases, these learning
materials are independent learning resources such as textbooks, e-learning modules, study guides, simulations, virtual
labs, and tutorials, none of which require attendance. Therefore, interruption for unsatisfactory attendance and
readmission conditions are not relevant.
Online learning "WGU style" is quite flexible, even compared to other online universities. The programs are personalized
to students' individual schedules, providing the flexibility students need to be successful in all areas of life, not just in
school. In fact, many of our graduates have commented on how nice it was to work their education around their jobs and
family, not the other way around.
Computer Requirements
To use WGU's online systems, a student must have the following:
1. A broadband (high speed) Internet connection (DSL or cable recommended; satellite Internet may work, but is not
recommended).
2. A desktop or laptop computer purchased in the last five years with any operating system capable of running the
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 37
required software listed below (e.g. Windows, Mac, Linux, etc.)
3. One or more of the following modern web browsers:
● Windows Internet Explorer
● Google Chrome
● Mozilla Firefox
● Apple Safari
4. A modern office productivity suite (e.g. Microsoft Office, Apple iWork, Apache OpenOffice, LibreOffice, etc.)
5. Audio: Sound card with speakers (external or built-in)
6. The following multimedia apps/plugins:
● PDF reader software (e.g. Adobe Reader, Apple Preview, Foxit Reader, etc.)
● Adobe Flash
● Adobe Shockwave
● Adobe AIR
● Apple Quicktime
● Java
● Microsoft Silverlight
7. WGU recommends that students have an up-to-date anti-virus program.
Note: WGU students will also be required to use a number of third-party learning resources. The system requirements
for these resources vary widely by program and assessment and may differ greatly from those listed above. Information
Technology students, in particular, may need to install specific applications that require a more powerful computer or a
specific operating system. If a student is concerned that their computer may not meet the minimum requirements for any
third-party learning resource or specific applications in the degree program, please contact Student Services, Learning
Resources or the IT Service Desk for more information.
Satellite Internet: WGU understands that in some cases satellite internet is a student’s only option. Certain learning
resources such as MyNursingLab and Soomo have experienced issues when being accessed from these types of
internet connections. Instances have been found where students are using providers such as Excede or DISH Network.
In order to assist students with this issue, WGU suggests and offers the following:
● Purchase a VPN connection. This allows a student to remotely access resources and work around satellite
internet conflicts. WGU does not endorse any specific VPN provider. Perform an internet search for VPN service
providers and choose one that works best for you.
● WGU will reimburse students for the cost of this service for up to six months, for up to $60 of service (1 term =
$60).
If VPN service is required for more than six months, additional reimbursement requests will be reviewed and determined
on a case-by-case basis by Academic Services leadership.
The WGU Grading System
Students are introduced to the grading system during their introductory new student orientation course of study. The
grading system is also described in the Program Guide Books that are sent to each applicant and student.
WGU, as a competency-based university, defines competency as the ability to perform a job/role to defined, established
standards in the real world. In other words, a graduate who possesses the knowledge, skills and abilities needed to be
successful on the first day at work is deemed competent. Thus, competent graduates are those who are conversant with
the content of the domains of knowledge and skill of their particular degree program and are ready to succeed in the
working world. Psychometricians at WGU have translated competency into proactive assessment development
processes and procedures to ensure passing scores are consistent with our intended interpretation. Because a “C”
typically denotes the minimum passing level, and not a competent level, WGU equates competency with a “B” grade.
We set passing standards (cut scores) for our competency exams using the Modified Angoff approach. The Modified
Angoff approach is a standardized method for setting passing standards that meets all applicable national testing
standards for fairness, is consistent with the type of scoring interpretations we use at WGU, and meets legal defensibility
requirements. In this method, we organize workshops of Subject Matter Experts (SME) who know about the content of
the exam and are familiar with first-day-on-the-job practitioners in the given field(s). During the workshop these SME
judges determine the difficulty of each test item, i.e., the proportion of competent graduates who would correctly answer
each test item. Standard setting judges are taught to visualize a group of competent graduates—analogous to those
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 38
with a B average. By way of comparison, we contrast this group with a “minimally qualified” person who may (or may
not) succeed on their first day at work (a C student) and an experienced or expert worker (an A student). In this way, our
competency exam passing standards (cut scores) can be interpreted as the score that would be achieved by competent
graduates—those who would likely finish a traditional program with a "B" average.
We set standards for Performance Task, laboratory, observation, clinical, and portfolio assessments using the “B” grade
analogy above. Passing for these assessments is always set such that candidates must score at the level of “3” on a
four-point scale, or the equivalent.
Transcripts include five possible marks:
● Pass: Certifies successful completion of a course of study. The student has demonstrated the required
competencies by passing the final assessment with a grade equivalent of B or better or a 3.00 on a 4.00 scale.
● Not Passed: Indicates that a student failed to complete a course of study in the time allotted. To meet program
requirements, the student generally re-enrolls for the course of study in a subsequent term.
● Requirement Satisfied: Recognizes that a student has satisfied the requirements of a course of study through
alternate coursework that may not be directly transferred.
● Transfer: Signifies that the student has completed equivalent coursework that complies with Western Governors
University transfer credit policies.
● Withdrawn: Represents that the student was withdrawn from the university or course before term completion.
The university does not calculate a grade point average (GPA). One competency unit is the equivalent of one semester
hour credit of learning in traditional grading systems. Grades are transcribed upon completion of a course of study. A
course(s) of study in progress will not appear on the transcript until the end of a term.
Note: Students receive a grade of Pass, Not Passed, or Withdrawn on their permanent academic record and transcript
for any course(s) of study for which they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment. An earned
Pass or Not Passed is not replaced with a grade of Withdrawn. Grades of Not Passed and Withdrawn are counted as
units that are not completed and, as such, are counted against satisfactory academic progress.
Progress Reporting
Two key components of progress reporting at WGU are (1) the personalized Degree Plan, and (2) the coaching report.
Additionally, WGU’s mentoring approach is a powerful component of both the WGU educational experience and student
progress management. Each newly enrolled student is assigned a mentor who will partner with the student throughout
his/her education. The mentor serves as an academic advisor, coach, and a friendly supporter of the student’s ultimate
success. The student and mentor interact closely on a regular basis via phone, email, and web conferencing. Together,
they develop a personalized Degree Plan that’s consistent with the student’s academic background and career
experience, comfort with independent learning, and the amount of time available to commit to studying.
The Degree Plan becomes the student’s "road map" to success. The mentor uses the Degree Plan to determine the
most appropriate learning resources based on the student’s background, strengths, and weaknesses; help the student
stay on track; and determine when s/he is ready for the required assessment.
The second component—the Coaching Report—provides feedback on objective tests to students and their mentors. Its
purpose is twofold: to help students identify areas of strength and areas for development; and to provide useful
information for mentor use in supporting student progress.
Personal Degree Plan
Degree Plans serve as the blueprint for completion of degree program requirements. Students will develop a Degree
Plan in close coordination with their mentor.
How Degree Plans Work
For each program, the essential skills and knowledge a highly competent graduate needs to possess for career success
have been carefully identified and selected. Degree Plans "map out" the learning resources and assessments each
student will need to complete in order to satisfy the requirements of their program. Students are responsible for
acquiring the skills for which they have not already demonstrated competency. A Degree Plan takes into account:
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 39
Existing Competencies – The skills and knowledge the student already possesses when entering the program.
Learning Resources – The online courses, tutorials, textbooks, and other learning materials available to prepare for
WGU assessments.
WGU Assessments – Tests and assignments that measure competence.
Degree Plans detail all program requirements, including:
● Term details (the amount of time needed to complete a required number of assessments)
● Assessment type, status, and associated learning resources
● Required completion dates (deadlines set within proper guidelines for completing assessments)
All of these will be described in detail by the mentor and established during the first few weeks of the program.
Term Enrollment
A student’s Degree Plan may be adjusted by the student and mentor to meet a student’s individual needs during term
enrollment. Term enrollment must take place within the first 10 days of the start of a new term. Students must be
enrolled at least full time (12 competency units for undergraduate students and 8 for graduate students). Satisfactory
Academic Progress is based on how to set enrollment each term.
Once term enrollment is completed, assessment required completion dates listed on the Degree Plan for the term may
not by changed, although students in consultation with the mentor may add additional assessments to the term through
the end of the fifth month of the term. Because students must complete all courses of study for which they are enrolled,
they should be sure they are prepared to take and pass additional assessments for which they enroll. Students who
enroll for and either do not attempt a course of study or fail a course of study will receive a mark of Not Passed on their
academic transcript.
Start and End Dates
Start and End Dates are the dates determined during term enrollment with the mentor to be the date by which a student
intends to begin and successfully complete a particular assessment. Many students choose to complete assessments
before the End Date. The goal of Start and End dates is to keep students on track for successful completion of a degree
program. Mentors will describe the policy in further detail during the introductory calls.
Policy on Student Conduct; Cause for Dismissal; Conditions on Readmissions
The university publishes its policy on student conduct and conditions of dismissal in the online student handbook under
Rights and Responsibilities. A link to the WGU Student Handbook, which is also available to students via the password-
secured WGU Student Portal, is provided below.
Student Handbook: www.wgu.edu/sh
On Time Progress to Graduation
WGU takes an active interest in a student’s progress through their program and requires students to make measurable
progress toward completion of their degree program every term.
The electronic catalog and all WGU Program Guide Books, which can be downloaded from the website or requested in
print copy, describe the university’s policy on academic progress.
Students completing a minimum of 12 competency units at the undergraduate level and 8 competency units at the
graduate level are considered to be making On Time Progress and be on track for on time graduation. On Time
Progress serves as a baseline from which students can accelerate their programs.
Failure to make progress is inconsistent with the WGU Promise. With this in mind, the university has established the
following policy:
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 40
Academic Suspension Due to Lack of Progress
Students who complete less than 3 competency units in a term will be placed on Academic Suspension and will be
administratively withdrawn from the university at the end of the term.
Academic Expulsion Due to Lack of Progress
Students who are readmitted to the university following Academic Suspension and who fail to complete a minimum of 3
competency unit in any subsequent term will be Academically Expelled and permanently removed from the university.
Students who are withdrawn due to Academic Expulsion will receive an “Academic Expulsion” notation on the academic
transcript.
Students who wish to appeal administrative withdrawal, due to Academic Suspension or Expulsion, may do so in writing
to the Registrar’s Office at records@wgu.edu. Appeals should be submitted between the 25th day of the last month of
the current term (the term where less than 3 competency unites are completed), and up to the 5th day of the suspension
term. Appeals need to clearly state the reason the student failed to make academic progress and include an explanation
of how the student will be academically successful if allowed to continue enrollment.
It is important to note that WGU assigns competency units (CUs) to each assessment in order to track academic
progress. One CU is the equivalent of one semester hour of learning in the traditional university. This equivalency has
been accepted by our national, regional, and professional accreditors; by other universities for credit transfer; and by
states for authorization and program approval. Students demonstrate mastery of their program’s required knowledge,
skills, and performance tasks—and thereby earn CUs—by passing assessments. Within each program description on
the WGU website is a link to the Program Guide Book, which, among other information, contains a definition of units of
credit.
How to Complete a Degree
Some aspects of the WGU student experience will be quite similar to what is expected at any college. Students study,
write papers, complete assignments, take tests, and interact with fellow students and faculty (although at a distance
rather than in classroom). Other aspects are quite different.
Focus on Demonstrating Competence
WGU does not ask students to accumulate credit hours; we ask students to develop competence—proof that they
understand concepts and can translate this understanding into usable knowledge and skills. There are many
advantages to this approach. Here are a couple:
With few exceptions, students will "schedule" their "class" time and decide when and where they study. It could be after
work, after the kids are put to bed or on a quiet Sunday afternoon.
Mentors guide students when choosing learning resources. How to develop competence is up to each student. It could
be textbooks and other reading material, online study groups and learning communities, videos and webinars, or other
resources. Students have the guidance of their mentor to set a path toward success.
Take and Pass Assessments
Often, we find that adult students have already developed many of the competencies needed for degree completion. So
instead of requiring class attendance, WGU asks students to prove their knowledge through assessments. Here are
some examples of assessments from various programs:
● Assignments involving problem-solving (e.g. science, information technology, etc.)
● Computerized exams consisting of multiple-choice, matching, or other question types (e.g. Mathematics)
● Projects requiring the student to design a lesson plan (e.g. Teaching)
● Reflection essays about case studies (e.g. MBA)
● Research papers on particular topics within the field.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 41
Student Accessibility Services
WGU complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other
applicable disability discrimination laws. WGU is committed to providing reasonable accommodation(s) to qualified
disabled applicants and learners in WGU programs and activities as required by applicable law.
The determination of reasonable accommodation(s) for qualified students with disabilities, and compliance with the ADA
and the Rehabilitation Act, are the responsibility of WGU Student Accessibility Services. Student Accessibility Services
is the principal point of contact for all students with disability questions or concerns.
WGU encourages current and prospective students needing accommodation(s) and/or resources to contact Student
Accessibility Services for assistance. Student Accessibility Services will respond to requests for accommodation(s) in
accordance with the Policies and Procedures for Learners with Disabilities published in the online student handbook.
Western Governors University respects the independence, rights, and dignity of learners with disabilities; therefore,
identifying oneself and/or requesting accommodation(s) is completely voluntary.
WGU complies with applicable laws concerning the confidentiality of disability-related health information and it is
committed to ensuring that all information regarding student health remains appropriately confidential; only Student
Accessibility Services has access to student health information. Student Accessibility Services retains student health
and accommodation information for the length of a student’s enrollment at WGU. WGU may infrequently be required by
law to disclose disability information without student consent.
Academic Authenticity
Students are provided with the following policy in the student handbook (http://www.wgu.edu/sh) regarding the
authenticity of their work:
“Academic Authenticity” means the ethical completion of WGU coursework. Examples include attributing text, pictures,
tables and graphs used in your coursework to their creators, and completing your own coursework. Academic
Authenticity is fundamental to the educational process at WGU.
The following policies apply to all WGU students and assessments regardless of location, and every WGU student is
expected to uphold these Academic Authenticity rules:
Intellectual Property
● Students may not use any information found, requested, or purchased on the Internet (or elsewhere) that may
include WGU assessment materials or responses to those materials (i.e., answers to exam questions or projects
completed by someone else).
● Similarly, students may not create and/or transmit responses to assessments or projects, as those responses may
potentially be submitted to WGU or another institution by someone else.
● Students may not copy, record, or disclose WGU assessment or project material to anyone else. This includes
copying for personal use and disclosure on websites, blogs, and other social media.
Assessments
A. General
● Unless directed by WGU to work with other students, all assessments and projects must be the student’s own
individual work.
● Students shall not falsify or deliberately misrepresent information submitted to meet the requirement of any
assessment.
B. Objective Assessment
● When taking a proctored WGU assessment, the student may not access any device or material not specifically
approved in advance, nor communicate with anyone except the proctor, this includes reading the questions aloud.
● All audio and video equipment must be in working order, and the student is required to remain in the view of the
proctor at all times.
C. Performance Assessment
● If students use material from any source, an appropriately formatted citation must be provided. To use the work of
another without proper citation is plagiarism and may lead to sanctions, including suspension or expulsion from
the university.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 42
All assessments and projects submitted by any WGU student will be evaluated for compliance with these rules. All
written work will be checked by WGU Evaluation Faculty, utilizing Turnitin.com, for evidence of plagiarism. To protect
each student’s identity, students are encouraged to remove all personal information, such as phone numbers and
addresses, from each assessment or project. Turnitin will store a copy of all work submitted to prevent its use by other
students.
The Code of Student Conduct defines violations of this policy as "cheating" subject to sanctions up to and including
expulsion from the university. Student access to assessment scheduling or task submission may be locked while an
investigation of alleged violations of this policy is underway.
Code of Student Conduct
As stated in the WGU Student Handbook:
PREAMBLE
This Western Governors University (WGU) Code of Student Conduct is premised on the belief that respect for
individuals, ideas, and the authenticity of student work are all critical to a thriving academic community. Accordingly,
WGU holds that all members of the WGU community have a shared responsibility for ethical, responsible, and respectful
behavior and should comply in every respect with all applicable laws in addition to the rules WGU has set forth in this
Code of Student Conduct.
ARTICLE I: DEFINITIONS
1. The term “WGU” means Western Governors University.
2. The term “student” includes all persons in all locations taking courses at WGU either full time or part time,
pursuing undergraduate, graduate, or professional studies. Persons who withdraw after allegedly violating the
Student Code, those who are not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a continuing relationship
with WGU or those who have been notified of their acceptance for admission are considered “students”.
3. The term “faculty member” means any person hired by WGU to conduct learning activities or who is otherwise
considered by WGU to be a member of its faculty.
4. The term “WGU official” includes any person employed by WGU performing assigned administrative or
professional responsibilities.
5. The term “member of the WGU community” includes any person who is a student, alumni, faculty member,
WGU official and any other person employed by WGU including proctors, graders, coaches, and clinical
supervisors.
6. The term “WGU premises” includes all land, buildings, facilities, portals, communities, and other property,
whether online or physical, in the possession of or owned, used, or controlled by WGU.
7. The term “Student Conduct Board” means any person or persons authorized by the Associate Provost for
Academic Services to determine whether a student has violated the Student Code and to decide sanctions that
may be imposed when a rules violation has been committed. The chair, or co-chairs, of the Student Conduct
Board shall be appointed by the Associate Provost for Academic Services.
8. The term “Student Conduct Administrator” means a WGU official authorized on a case by case basis by the
Associate Provost for Academic Services to investigate complaints, to advise the Student Conduct Board, and to
carry out sanctions imposed upon any student(s) found by the Student Conduct Board to have violated the
Student Code.
9. The term “Appellate Board” means any person or persons authorized by the Associate Provost for Academic
Services to consider an appeal from the Student Conduct Board’s determination as to whether a student has
violated the Student Code or from the sanctions imposed by the Student Conduct Administrator.
10. The term “shall” is used in the imperative sense.
11. The term “may” is used in the permissive sense.
12. The Associate Provost for Academic Services is that person designated by WGU’s President to be responsible
for the administration of the Student Code.
13. The term “policy” means the written regulations of WGU as found in, but not limited to the WGU Student
Handbook including this Student Code of Conduct and any student handbook specific to a WGU degree
program. All WGU policy is made continuously available to students on the University’s website.
14. The term “cheating” includes, but is not limited to: (1) using any information found, requested or purchased on
the Internet (or elsewhere) containing WGU assessment materials or responses to those materials (i.e., answers
to exam questions or projects responses created by someone else); (2) creating or transmitting responses to
WGU assessments or projects if you have reason to know those responses may be submitted to WGU by
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 43
someone else; (3) copying, recording and disclosing WGU assessment or project material for others’ use; (4)
accessing any device or materials not specifically approved in advance, or communicating with anyone except
the proctor when taking a proctored WGU assessment; and (5) working with others on assessments or projects
unless specifically directed by WGU; and (6) representing the work of others as your own without proper citation.
15. The term “plagiarism” includes, but is not limited to, the use, by paraphrase or direct quotation, of the
published or unpublished work of another person without full and clear acknowledgment. It also includes the
unacknowledged use of materials prepared by another person or agency engaged in the selling of term papers
or other academic materials.
16. The term “harassment” means the use of words, gestures, imagery, and other communication that creates a
hostile and intimidating environment to the degree that other members of the WGU community would choose not
to participate in communications, programs, or activities.
17. The term “identity misrepresentation” means the use of false, stolen or borrowed identification materials (e.g.,
driver’s license) to obtain: i) admission to WGU, ii) access to student financial aid, or iii) access to WGU
programs, assessments and other activities.
18. The term “Complainant” means any person who submits a charge alleging that a student violated this Student
Code. When a student believes that s/he has been a victim of another student’s misconduct, the student who
believes s/he has been a victim will have the same rights under this Student Code as are provided to the
Complainant, even if another member of the WGU community submitted the charge itself.
19. The term “Accused Student” means any student accused of violating this Student Code.
20. The term “Advisor” includes any member of the WGU community but the Advisor cannot be acting as an
attorney.
21. “Education Records” are broadly defined to include all records directly related to a student and are protected
from disclosure under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Disciplinary Records and
Academic Records are considered to be Education Records and as a result are kept confidential in accordance
with this law.
22. The “Disciplinary Record” includes a statement of charges, summary of information considered by or
presented to the Code of Conduct Board, findings or sanctions, records of appeals, and rationale for the
decisions.
23. The “Academic Record” is defined as information relating to a student’s academic performance including
transcripts, narrative notes of the student’s academic progress as documented by the student’s mentor(s),
assessment and evaluation results, external exam scores, and results of any appeals filed by the student.
24. The term “hazing” means any action or situation that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or
physical health or safety of a student for purposes, including, but not limited to, the purpose of initiation or
admission into or affiliation with any organization operating under the sanction of a postsecondary institution;
includes, but is not limited to pressuring or coercing the student into violating state or federal law; any brutality of
a physical nature, such as whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the elements, forced
consumption of any food, liquor, drug, or other substance, or other forced physical activity that which could
adversely affect the physical health or safety of the student; any activity that which would subject the student to
extreme mental stress, such as sleep deprivation, forced exclusion from social contact, forced conduct that
which could result in extreme embarrassment; other forced activity that which could adversely affect the mental
health or dignity of the student. Hazing does not include customary athletic events or other similar contests or
competitions or any activity or conduct that furthers a legal and legitimate objective.
ARTICLE II: STUDENT CODE AUTHORITY
1. The Associate Provost for Academic Services shall determine the composition of the Student Conduct Board and
Appellate Boards and determine which Student Conduct Board, Student Conduct Administrator and Appellate
Board shall be authorized to hear each matter.
2. The Associate Provost for Academic Services shall develop policies for the administration of the student conduct
system and procedural rules for the conduct of Student Conduct Board Hearings that are not inconsistent with
provisions of the Student Code.
3. Decisions made by the Student Conduct Board and/or Student Conduct Administrator designated by the
Associate Provost for Academic Services shall be final, pending the normal appeal process.
ARTICLE III: JURISDICTION OF WGU STUDENT CODE
WGU Student Code of Conduct shall apply to conduct that adversely affects the WGU Community and/or the pursuit of
its objectives. Each student shall be responsible for his/her conduct from the time of application for admission through
the actual awarding of a degree, even though conduct may occur before courses begin or after courses end, during
periods between terms of actual enrollment, and conduct that is not discovered until after a degree is awarded. The
Student Code shall apply to a student’s conduct even if the student withdraws from school while a disciplinary matter is
pending.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 44
ARTICLE IV: DISCRIMINATION, HARASSMENT, SEXUAL MISCONDUCT, STALKING AND RETALIATION
In addition to the Code of Student Conduct, all students at WGU are also subject to the University’s Discrimination,
Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Stalking and Retaliation Policy and accompanying Discrimination Grievance
Procedures which are separate from the Student Conduct Code standards and procedures. The University’s
Discrimination and Harassment policy covers behaviors related to discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault,
inducing incapacitation for sexual purposes, sexual exploitation, relationship violence, stalking, and retaliation.
In cases where the provisions in the Student Conduct Code and the provisions in the Discrimination and Harassment
policy and accompanying Discrimination Grievance Procedures are different or inconsistent, the Discrimination and
Harassment policy and Discrimination Grievance Procedures supersede. Therefore, all students are expected read the
Discrimination and Harassment policy and Discrimination Grievance Procedures, as well as the Code of Student
Conduct, to gain a thorough understanding of the expectations and procedures set forth in both processes and the
differences between the two. Differences include, but are not limited to, the evidentiary standard used to determine
whether a violation has occurred (“preponderance of the evidence” in the Discrimination Grievance Procedures and
“clear and convincing evidence” in the Code of Student Conduct), and the procedures for appeal.
When a student has been found in violation of the Discrimination and Harassment policy, the Title IX Coordinator is
charged with imposing disciplinary sanctions. Possible sanctions that may be applied are the same as those described
in the Student Conduct Code. Disciplinary records for Discrimination and Harassment violations are maintained in the
same manner as other disciplinary records under the Student Conduct Code.
ARTICLE V: PROSCRIBED CONDUCT
A. Conduct—Rules and Regulations
Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following misconduct is subject to the
disciplinary sanctions outlined in Article VI:
1. Acts of dishonesty, including but not limited to the following (See Academic Authenticity):
a. Cheating, plagiarism, or other forms of academic dishonesty.
b. Identity misrepresentation.
c. Furnishing false information to any WGU official, faculty member, or office.
d. Forgery, alteration, or misuse of any WGU document, record, or instrument of identification.
2. Disruption or obstruction of advising, facilitation, instruction, research, administration, disciplinary proceedings or
other WGU activities.
3. Unprofessional conduct including harassment, threatening, bullying or verbal abuse of any member of the WGU
community by any means (conduct, speech, written notes, electronic mail, etc.). This includes, but is not limited
to, the use of threats, profanity, and demeaning or intimidating comments.
4. Physical abuse, threats of physical abuse, and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or
safety of any person.
5. Illegal use, possession or distribution of alcohol or any controlled substance on University premises or at
University sponsored events.
6. Attempted or actual theft of and/or damage to property of WGU or property of a member of the WGU
community.
7. Failure to comply with directions of WGU officials or law enforcement officers acting in performance of their
duties and/or failure to identify oneself to these persons when requested to do so.
8. Failure to conform to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the Teachers College Code of Ethics,
Professional Behaviors and Dispositions, the WGU Nursing Programs Standards of Professional Conduct and
Process for Dispositional Disciplinary Action, and similar standards of professional conduct associated with other
WGU field experience programs.
9. Violation of any WGU policy.
10. Violation of any federal, state or local law.
11. Illegal or unauthorized possession of firearms, explosives, other weapons, or dangerous chemicals on WGU
premises or use of any such item, even if legally possessed, in a manner that harms, threatens or causes fear to
others.
12. Theft, abuse or misuse of WGU computing, information and communication systems (“WGU systems”) and/or
protected WGU information, files and resources (“WGU resources”) including but not limited to:
a. Unauthorized entry into WGU resources to use, read, or change the contents, or for any other purpose.
b. Unauthorized transfer of WGU resources.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 45
c. Use of another individual’s user name and/or password.
d. Use of WGU systems to interfere with the work of another member of the WGU community.
e. Use of WGU systems to send obscene or harassing messages.
f. Interfering with the normal operation of WGU systems and WGU resources.
g. Use of WGU resources in violation of WGU’s Student License Agreement for use of learning resources.
h. Any violation of the WGU Systems Use Policy.
i. Unauthorized use of WGU systems and WGU resources to obtain or disclose the personal details of another
member of the WGU community.
j. Tampering with communications.
13. Abuse of the Student Conduct System, including but not limited to:
a. Failure to obey a notice from the Student Conduct Board or WGU official to appear for a meeting or hearing
as part of the Student Conduct System.
b. Falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation of information before Student Conduct Board.
c. Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a Student Conduct Board proceeding.
d. Institution of a student conduct code proceeding in bad faith.
e. Attempting to discourage an individual’s proper participating in, or use of, the student conduct system.
f. Attempting to influence the impartiality of a member of the Student Conduct Board prior to, and/or during the
course of, the Student Conduct Board proceeding.
g. Harassment (verbal or physical) and/or intimidation of a member of the Student Conduct Board prior to,
during, and/or after a student conduct code proceeding.
h. Failure to comply with the sanction(s) imposed under the Student Code.
i. Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse of the student conduct code
system.
B. Attempts and Complicity
Attempts to commit acts prohibited by the Student Conduct Code, and/or knowingly or willfully encouraging or assisting
others to commit any of these acts, are also prohibited and may be adjudicated in the same manner.
C. Violation of Law and WGU Discipline
WGU disciplinary proceedings may be instituted against a student charged with conduct that potentially violates both the
criminal law and this Student Code (that is, if both possible violations result from the same factual situation) without
regard to the pendency of civil or criminal litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution. Proceedings under this
Student Code may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal proceedings at the discretion
of the Associate Provost for Academic Services. Determinations made or sanctions imposed under this Student Code
shall not be subject to change because criminal charges arising out of the same facts giving rise to violation of University
rules were dismissed, reduced, or resolved in favor of or against the criminal law defendant.
ARTICLE VI: STUDENT CONDUCT CODE PROCEDURES
A. Charges and Student Conduct Board Hearings
1. Any member of the WGU community may file charges against a student for violations of the Student Code. A
charge must be submitted in writing and directed to the Student Conduct Administrator. Any charge should be
submitted as soon as possible after the event takes place or is discovered, preferably within the same academic
term or 90 days, whichever is later. The Student Conduct Board retains the right to review all work submitted to
WGU. The Student Conduct Administrator may conduct an investigation to determine if the charges have merit
and/or if they can be disposed of administratively by mutual consent of the parties involved on a basis acceptable
to the Student Conduct Administrator. Such disposition shall be final and there shall be no subsequent
proceedings. If the student admits violating institutional rules, but sanctions are not agreed to, subsequent
process, including hearing if necessary, shall be limited to determining the appropriate sanction(s).
2. All charges shall be presented to the Accused Student in written form. A time shall be set for the Student
Conduct Board Hearing, not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15) calendar days after the student has been
notified. Maximum time limits for scheduling of Student Conduct Board Hearings may be extended at the
discretion of the Student Conduct Administrator.
3. Student Conduct Board hearings shall be conducted by telephone conference according to the following
guidelines:
a. Student Conduct Board Hearings normally shall be conducted in private.
b. The Complainant, Accused Student and their advisors, if any, shall be allowed to attend the entire portion of
the Student Conduct Board Hearing at which information is received (excluding deliberations). Admission of any
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 46
other person to the Student Conduct Board Hearing shall be at the discretion of the Student Conduct Board
and/or its Student Conduct Administrator.
c. In Student Conduct Board hearings involving more than one Accused Student, the Student Conduct
Administrator, in his or her discretion, may permit the Student Conduct Board Hearings concerning each student
to be conducted either separately or jointly.
d. The Complainant and the Accused Student may, upon five (5) days advance written notice to WGU, be
assisted by an advisor they choose. The advisor must be a member of the WGU community and may not be
acting in the capacity of an attorney. If the Complainant and/or the Accused Student fail to provide a minimum of
five (5) days’ notice the Student Conduct Board hearing may be rescheduled.
e. The Complainant and/or the Accused Student is responsible for presenting his or her own information, and
therefore, advisors are not permitted to speak or to participate directly in any Student Conduct Board hearing. A
student should select as an advisor a person whose schedule allows attendance at the scheduled date and time
for the Student Conduct Board Hearing; delays will not normally be allowed due to the scheduling conflicts of an
advisor.
f. The Complainant, the Accused Student and the Student Conduct Board may arrange for witnesses to present
pertinent information to the Student Conduct Board. At the discretion of the Student Conduct Administrator, WGU
will try to arrange the attendance of witnesses who are members of the WGU community, provided such
witnesses are identified by the Complainant and/or Accused Student at least five business days prior to the
hearing. Witnesses will provide information to, and answer questions from, the Student Conduct Board.
Questions may be suggested by the Accused Student and/or Complainant to be answered by each other or by
other witnesses. This will be conducted by the Student Conduct Board with such questions directed to the
chairperson, rather than to the witness directly. This method is used to preserve the educational tone of the
hearing and to avoid creation of an adversarial environment. Questions of whether potential information will be
received shall be resolved in the discretion of the chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
g, Pertinent records, exhibits, and written statements may be accepted as information for consideration by the
Student Conduct Board at the discretion of the chairperson.
h. All procedural questions are subject to the final decision of the chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
i. After the portion of the Student Conduct Board Hearing concludes in which all pertinent information has been
received, the Student Conduct Board shall determine by majority vote whether the Accused Student has violated
each section of the Student Code which the student is charged with violating.
j. The Student Conduct Board‘s determination shall be made on the basis of whether it is more likely than not
that the Accused Student violated the Student Code.
k. Formal rules of process, procedure, and/or technical rules of evidence, such as are applied in criminal or civil
court, are not used in Student Code proceedings.
4. There shall be a single verbatim record, such as an audio recording, of all Student Conduct Board Hearings,
however the Board’s deliberations shall not be recorded. The record shall be the property of WGU and will
become part of the Accused Student’s Disciplinary Record and will be maintained on file for seven (7) years
following the last date of academic activity. Records for students that are suspended or expelled from the
University will be kept indefinitely
5. If an Accused Student who has been provided appropriate notice, does not attend the Student Conduct Board
Hearing, the information in support of the charges shall be presented and considered even if the Accused Student
is not present.
6. The Student Conduct Board may accommodate concerns for the personal safety, well-being, and/or fears of
confrontation of the Complainant or witnesses during the hearing by permitting participation by separate meeting,
separate telephone line, written statement, or other means, where determined to be appropriate by the Student
Conduct Administrator.
B. Sanctions
1. Depending upon a student’s history of misconduct and the severity of the conduct at issue, the Student Conduct
Board may direct the Student Conduct Administrator to impose any of the following sanctions upon a student
found to have violated the rules of conduct described in Article V(A):
a. Level 1 Warning—A written (email) notice that a student’s conduct is violating or has violated the rules of
conduct.
b. Level 2 Warning —A written notice indicating that a student’s conduct is violating or has violated the rules of
conduct and includes an improvement plan that will demonstrate conduct conforming to the Student Code of
Conduct within a specified time period. A Level 2 Warning includes the probability of more severe sanctions for
any subsequent violation of the rules of conduct.
c. Loss of Privileges—A written notice of the denial of specified privileges for a designated period of time.
d. Restitution—Compensation for loss, damage, or injury. This may take the form of appropriate service and/or
monetary or material replacement.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 47
e. Discretionary Sanctions—Work assignments, essays, service to WGU or other related discretionary
assignments.
f. Disciplinary Suspension—Separation of the student from WGU for a definite period of time, after which the
student is eligible to return. Conditions for readmission may be specified.
g. Removal from Academic Program – Removal of the student from her/his chosen academic program for
behaviors not conforming to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the WGU Teacher’s College Code
of Ethics, the WGU Nursing College Code of Ethics, and similar standards of professional conduct associated
with other WGU licensure programs. WGU may, in its discretion, suggest one or more alternative academic
programs. If an alternative program is not acceptable to the student, he or she will be subject to expulsion.
h. Disciplinary Expulsion—Permanent separation of the student from WGU without the possibility of readmission.
i. Revocation of transcripted grades and/or assessment results – Grades or assessment results that are
considered part of the student’s Academic Record may be amended.
j. Revocation of Admission and/or Degree—Admission to, or a degree awarded from WGU may be revoked for
fraud, misrepresentation, or other violation of WGU standards in obtaining the degree, or for other serious
violations committed by a student prior to graduation.
k. Withholding Degree—WGU may withhold awarding a degree otherwise earned until the completion of the
process set forth in this Student Conduct Code, including the completion of all sanctions imposed, if any.
2. More than one of the sanctions listed above may be imposed for any single violation.
3. (a) Disciplinary expulsion, removal from academic program or revocation or withholding of a degree are part of
the student’s permanent academic record. Other disciplinary sanctions shall not be made part of the student’s
permanent academic record, but shall become part of the student’s disciplinary record. (b) In situations involving
both an Accused Student and a student claiming to be the victim of another student’s conduct, the records of the
process and of the sanctions imposed, if any, shall be considered to be the academic records of both the
Accused Student(s) and the student(s) claiming to be the victim because the educational career and chances of
success in the academic community of each may be impacted.
4. Following the Student Conduct Board hearing, the Student Conduct Administrator shall advise the Accused
Student and the Complainant in writing of the Board’s determination and of the sanction(s) imposed, if any.
C. Administrative Holds
If a student fails to respond to a complaint or complete educational sanctions as required, an administrative hold shall be
placed on the student’s record by the Office of Student Conduct to ensure cooperation with the disciplinary process. In
most cases an administrative hold will not prevent a student from completing coursework in the current term, but the
student will be prevented from registering in additional courses or obtaining a degree. Depending on the severity of the
charges, the Conduct Administrator may also institute an administrative hold pending the outcome of proceedings.
D. Interim Suspension
In certain circumstances, the Associate Provost for Academic Services, or a designee, may impose a WGU suspension
prior to the Student Conduct Board Hearing before the Student Conduct Board.
Interim suspension may be imposed: (a) to ensure the safety and wellbeing of members of WGU community or
preservation of WGU property; (b) to ensure the student’s own physical or emotional safety and wellbeing; or (c) if the
Accused Student poses an ongoing threat of disruption of, or interference with, the normal operations of WGU.
During the interim suspension, an Accused Student shall be denied access to some or all WGU systems or privileges for
which the Accused Student might otherwise be eligible, as the Associate Provost for Academic Services or the Student
Conduct Administrator may determine to be appropriate for the purposes of investigation.
The interim suspension does not replace the regular process, which shall proceed on the normal schedule, up to and
through the Student Conduct Board Hearing, if required.
The Accused Student shall be notified in writing of this action and the reasons for the suspension. The notice shall
include the time, date, and place of a subsequent hearing at which the Accused Student may show cause why his or her
continued use of the WGU systems or privileges does not constitute a threat [and at which they may contest whether a
WGU rule was violated]. Time lost within the term while the student is on interim suspension may not be added back to
the end of the term in the form of a term extension or incomplete grade.
E. Appeals
1. A decision reached by the Student Conduct Board or a sanction imposed by the Student Conduct Administrator
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 48
may be appealed by the Accused Student(s) or Complainant(s) to the Appellate Board within five (5) business
days of the decision. Such appeals shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Student Conduct
Administrator or his or her designee.
2. Except as required to explain the basis of new information, an appeal shall be limited to a review of the verbatim
record of the Student Conduct Board Hearing and supporting documents for one or more of the following
purposes:
a. To determine whether the Student Conduct Board Hearing was conducted fairly in light of the charges and
information presented, and in conformity with prescribed procedures giving the complaining party a reasonable
opportunity to prepare and to present information that the Student Code was violated, and giving the Accused
Student a reasonable opportunity to prepare and to present a response to those allegations. Deviations from
designated procedures will not be a basis for sustaining an appeal unless significant prejudice results.
b. To determine whether the decision reached regarding the Accused Student was based on substantial
information, that is, whether there were facts in the case that, if believed by the fact finder, were sufficient to
establish that a violation of the Student Code occurred. To determine whether the sanction(s) imposed were
appropriate for the violation of the Student Code which the student was found to have committed.
c. To consider new information, sufficient to alter a decision or other relevant facts not brought out in the original
hearing, because such information and/or facts were not known to the person appealing at the time of the original
Student Conduct Board Hearing.
3. If an appeal is upheld by the Appellate Board, the matter shall be returned to the original Student Conduct Board
and Student Conduct Administrator for reopening of Student Conduct Board Hearing to allow reconsideration of
the original determination and/or sanction(s). If an appeal is not upheld, the matter shall be considered final and
binding upon all involved.
ARTICLE VII: INTERPRETATION AND REVISION
A. Any question of interpretation or application of the Student Code shall be referred to the Associate Provost for
Academic Services or his or her designee for final determination.
B. The Student Code shall be reviewed every two (2) years under the direction or discretion of the Associate Provost for
Academic Services. In the interim this code may be amended at any time upon appropriate notice to students.
Suggested revisions may be made to the Student Conduct Administrator to be reviewed by a panel assigned by the
Associate Provost for Academic Services.
Refund and Cancellation Policy
Information on WGU’s refund policy is found on the website and in the student handbook.
New terms begin on the first day of every month for all programs. After applying and being accepted for admission,
students must complete an Intake Interview—generally by the 15th of the month prior to when starting. Students are
also required to make arrangements to pay the first term’s tuition (either self-pay or through financial aid) by the 22nd of
the month prior to the starting month. An Enrollment Counselor can help students complete the admission process.
Tuition and Fees Refund
Students who withdraw from WGU or stop progress through the 60-percent (60%) point of a six-month term of
enrollment for which tuition is assessed will receive a prorated tuition refund. After that point, there is no provision for a
refund. The admission application fee is non-refundable.
Note: Florida residents enrolling in the B.S. in Nursing program are eligible for an application fee refund ($65) if they
cancel the Enrollment Agreement during the first 3 days after signing.
Determining Withdrawal Dates
Withdrawal dates are determined in two ways, either through student-initiated withdrawal (official) or through WGU
administrative withdrawal (unofficial). Student-initiated withdrawal occurs when the student notifies WGU of the intent to
withdraw. Administrative withdrawal occurs when WGU determines that the student is no longer enrolled based on a
variety of reasons such as a student's lack of academic activity, failure to establish academic activity verification at the
beginning of a new term or failure to pay tuition.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 49
Student-initiated withdrawals: The withdrawal date is the date the student notified WGU of the intent to withdraw.
Administrative withdrawals: The withdrawal date is the last date of student academic activity or 50% completion of the
term.
Calculating the Refund
The percentage calculation for refund eligibility is based on the number of calendar days enrolled (start of term to
withdrawal date) divided by the total number of calendar days in the term. If the percentage is less than or equal to 60%
of the term, the student is eligible for a refund. The refund amount is calculated by multiplying the tuition by the
percentage of days remaining in the term after the withdrawal date, assuming the student has completed 60% or less of
the term.
Refunds
Once eligibility for refund is calculated, the Student Accounts Office adjusts tuition charges and issues refunds, as
applicable. In the case of financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the appropriate
grant or loan program based on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this calculation,
students may owe WGU a portion of tuition and fees that are not covered. Funds reimbursed to the student are
reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., tuition paid by check is refunded by check, and tuition paid by credit
card is refunded by credit card.
Tuition Refund Appeal
In the case of exceptional circumstances students may make a tuition refund appeal by submitting a written explanation
of the circumstances that warrants an exception to the published refund policy. Exceptional circumstances might include
incapacitating illness or injury or unanticipated military service. Supporting documentation to verify the circumstance is
required. All appeals should be sent to the Manager of Student Services at studentservices@wgu.edu.
Student Complaint Process
Students who believe they have been treated unfairly by WGU, either through the action of individuals or the application
of existing policy, may have their complaint(s) addressed by the procedures described in the Student Complaint Policy
(available in the student handbook). Students who are unclear about the appropriate procedures may contact Student
Services for guidance at (877) 435-7948 or studentservices@wgu.edu.
Informal Complaints
An informal complaint can arise from any student dissatisfaction. With some exceptions, WGU encourages students to
handle complaints as close to the source as possible by discussing issues with the relevant WGU department, staff
member or supervisor. This practice allows issues to be resolved more quickly by individuals with required expertise.
The Student Complaint Policy describes procedures established to promote direct interaction with responsible University
departments and staff.
Formal Complaints
If a student is unsure how to approach a concern or an earlier complaint cannot be resolved informally, the student may
initiate a formal complaint by sending a written explanation of the concern to WGU Student Services at
studentservices@wgu.edu. The written complaint must describe who has been involved, the current status of the
concern, and steps taken to resolve the concern informally.
WGU Student Services will work to swiftly resolve each complaint and in every case will respond within 10 business
days. If Student Services is not able to resolve the concern to the student's satisfaction, within 5 business days the
student may appeal the decision by submitting a brief, written summary of the concern to WGU’s Associate Provost for
Academic Services. The decision of the Associate Provost shall be final.
Discrimination and Harassment
If a complaint involves any type of alleged discrimination or harassment in violation of the WGU Discrimination,
Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Stalking and Retaliation Policy or the student wishes to remain anonymous, the
student may immediately make a formal complaint to the Title IX Coordinator per the process outlined in the WGU
Discrimination Grievance Procedures. Contact information for the Title IX Coordinator is:
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 50
Lucas Kavlie - Title IX Coordinator
Western Governors University
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
TitleIX@wgu.edu
Direct: 385.428.5948
Toll Free: 877.435.7948 x5948
Consumer Complaint Process
In the event that students believe that their issue with the university cannot be resolved through the grievance and
complaint processes noted above, they have the right to contact our accrediting agencies and/or various state agencies.
WGU publishes Consumer Complaint Process information in the online student handbook.
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Consumer-Complaint-Process/ta-p/160
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 51
Academic Programs
Online College of Business
● B.S. Business Management
● B.S. Business—Healthcare Management
● B.S. Business—Human Resource Management
● B.S. Business—Information Technology Management
● B.S. Marketing Management
● B.S. Accounting
● Master of Business Administration (MBA)
● MBA Information Technology Management
● MBA Healthcare Management
● M.S. Integrated Healthcare Management
● M.S. Management and Leadership
● M.S. Accounting
Online College of Health Professions
● B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure)
● B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN)
● M.S. Nursing—Education
● M.S. Nursing—Leadership and Management
● M.S. Nursing—Nursing Informatics
● M.S. Nursing—Education (RN to MSN Option)
● M.S. Nursing—Leadership and Management (RN to MSN Option)
● M.S. Nursing—Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN Option)
Online College of Information Technology
● B.S. Data Management/Data Analytics
● B.S. Information Technology
● B.S. Information Technology—Network Administration
● B.S. Information Technology—Security
● B.S. Software Development
● B.S. Health Information Management
● M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
● M.S. Data Analytics
● M.S. Information Technology Management
Online Teachers College
Online Teacher Licensure Degree Programs:
● B.A. Interdisciplinary Studies (K-8)
● B.A. Mathematics (5-9 or 5-12)
● B.A. Science (5-9)
● B.A. Science (Biological Science, 5-12)
● B.A. Science (Chemistry, 5-12)
● B.A. Science (Geosciences, 5-12)
● B.A. Science (Physics, 5-12)
● B.A. Special Education (K-12)
Online Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Licensure Programs:
● Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program, Elementary Education (K-8)
● Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program, Mathematics (5-9 or 5-12)
● Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program, Science (5-9 or 5-12)
● Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program, Social Science (5-12)
Online Master in Education with Teacher Licensure Programs:
● M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education (K-8)
● M.A. Teaching, English (5-12)
● M.A. Teaching, Mathematics (5-9 or 5-12)
● M.A. Teaching, Science (5-9 or 5-12)
● M.A. Teaching, Social Science (5-12)
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 52
Online Graduate Programs for Licensed Teachers:
● M.S. Special Education (K-12)
● M.S. Educational Leadership
● M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
● M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6, 5-9, or 5-12)
● M.A. Science Education (5-9)
● M.A. Science Education (Chemistry, 5-12)
● M.A. Science Education (Physics, 5-12)
● M.A. Science Education (Biological Science, 5-12)
● M.A. Science Education (Geosciences, 5-12)
● M.Ed. Instructional Design
● M.Ed. Learning and Technology
● M.S. Curriculum and Instruction
● Endorsement Preparation Program in Educational Leadership
● Endorsement Preparation Program in English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
WGU publishes all available programs on the university website (http://www.wgu.edu/degrees_and_programs).
WGU’s public website provides access to a description of every degree program offered by the university, and each
description includes the requirements to be met for satisfactory completion.
Each degree listing includes an overview of the program and the program’s standard path. The standard path outlines
degree requirements (assessments and associated courses of study), the order in which requirements should be
completed, and the associated competency units (credits) by term.
A WGU course is an organized learning resource, comparable to a traditional course syllabus, and containing a week-
by-week pacing component with a focus on helping students navigate independent learning resources in an efficient
way. Each assessment in the standard path has a related course to guide students in acquiring the skills, knowledge,
and abilities needed to pass the assessment.
Information provided for each course includes: the Assessment/Course Code; the Course Name; and the competency
unit(s) earned when the assessment is passed. Example: BAC1 – Foundations of College Mathematics (2). Refer to the
standard path codes for any program of interest to determine which Courses apply to that program.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 53
College of Business Programs
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 54
Bachelor of Science, Business Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business Management is a competency-based program that enables leaders and
managers in organizations to earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The B.S. in Business Management is great
preparation for a variety of careers in the business field. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of study,
WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 2
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 3
BUS 2100 C711 Introduction to Business 3 3
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 4
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 5
SCIE 1015 C452 Integrated Natural Science Applications 4 5
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 5
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 5
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 6
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 6
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 6
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 6
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 7
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 8
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 8
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 8
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 8
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 9
BSMG 201707 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 55
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 9
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 9
MGMT 4800 C714 Business Strategy 3 9
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 10
BUS 4840 QGT1 Business Management Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSMG 201707 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 56
Bachelor of Science, Business - Healthcare Management
The Bachelor of Science, Business - Healthcare Management degree requires completion of courses focused on
healthcare management areas in addition to our existing general education and business core curriculum. This
program is designed to prepare WGU graduates for a variety of entry level managerial positions in healthcare
organizations. The BS, Business - Healthcare Management degree program prepares you with the knowledge and
skills to serve in a variety of non-clinical or health care services roles at skilled nursing facilities, residential care
facilities, small to medium healthcare facilities, and coordination specialist, managers for Accountable Care
Organizations, insurance companies, or community health organizations. In addition, you would have the ability to join
other organizations focused on developing, manufacturing, and providing medical related products or services such as
pharmaceutical and medical device companies, case management organizations and the financial services sector of
the healthcare industry. You will learn the factors affecting complex medical systems and organizational integration of
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) with its complex rules and compliance standards. You will be
able to utilize healthcare data and make appropriate recommendations to improve patient outcomes and satisfaction.
Additionally, you will learn care coordination to improve organizational efficiencies and operations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2100 C711 Introduction to Business 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 1
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
HCM 2110 C425 Healthcare Delivery Systems, Regulation, and Compliance 3 3
COMM 1010 C132 Elements of Effective Communication 3 3
SCIE 1010 C451 Integrated Natural Science 4 3
SCIE 1015 C452 Integrated Natural Science Applications 4 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 4
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 4
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 4
HCM 2210 C426 Healthcare Values and Ethics 3 5
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 5
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 6
HCM 2310 C427 Technology Applications in Healthcare 3 6
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 6
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 6
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
BSBUHCM 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 57
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 8
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 8
HCM 3110 C428 Financial Resource Management in Healthcare 3 8
HCM 3210 C429 Healthcare Operations Management 3 8
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 9
HCM 3310 C430 Healthcare Quality Improvement and Risk Management 3 9
HCM 3410 C431 Healthcare Research and Statistics 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 9
HCM 3510 C432 Healthcare Management and Strategy 3 10
HCM 2910 C439 Healthcare Management Capstone 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSBUHCM 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 58
Bachelor of Science, Business - Human Resource Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business- Human Resource Management is a competency-based program that enables
students to earn a Bachelor of Science degree that is tailored to the student's professional HR experience. The
Business- Human Resource Management degree is great preparation for a career as a human resource manager or
personnel director. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of study, development of a comprehensive
portfolio, WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone project. In addition, this program is aligned with and
will help you prepare for the Professional in Human Resources (PHR)* Certification Exam and the Assurance of
Learning Exam should you decide to pursue either of these on your own. *Other experience requirements apply to
undertake this exams.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 1
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 1
BUS 2100 C711 Introduction to Business 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 2
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 3
COMM 1010 C132 Elements of Effective Communication 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 3
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 4
SCIE 1015 C452 Integrated Natural Science Applications 4 4
SCIE 1010 C451 Integrated Natural Science 4 4
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 4
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 5
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 5
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 6
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 6
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 6
HRM 3500 C235 Training and Development 3 6
BUS 4800 HMP1 Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management 3 7
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 8
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 8
BSBUHR 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 59
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 8
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 8
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 9
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 9
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
BUS 4881 PFHM Business - HR Management Portfolio Requirement 3 9
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 10
BUS 4880 QET1 Business - HR Management Capstone Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSBUHR 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 60
Bachelor of Science, Business - Information Technology Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business- Information Technology Management is a competency-based program that
enables information technology professionals to earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The Bachelor of Science in
Business- Information Technology Management degree is great preparation for a career as an IT project manager,
director of customer service, data center manager, or equivalent position. This program consists of eight balanced
areas of study, development of a comprehensive portfolio, WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone
project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2100 C711 Introduction to Business 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 1
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 2
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 3
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 3
SCIE 1010 C451 Integrated Natural Science 4 3
SCIE 1015 C452 Integrated Natural Science Applications 4 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 4
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 4
COMM 1010 C132 Elements of Effective Communication 3 4
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 5
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 5
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 6
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 6
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 6
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 6
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 7
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 7
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 7
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 8
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 8
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 8
BSBUITM 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 61
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection 3 8
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 9
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 9
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 9
BUS 4890 QFT1 Business - IT Management Capstone Project 4 10
BUS 4891 PFIT Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement 3 10
Total CUs: 122
BSBUITM 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 62
Bachelor of Science, Marketing Management
The Bachelor of Science in Marketing Management is a competency-based program that enables marketing and sales
professionals to earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The B.S. in Marketing Management is great preparation for a
variety of careers in marketing, promotion, and sales management. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of
study (domains), WGU competency-based assessments, and a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2100 C711 Introduction to Business 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 1
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 2
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 3
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 3
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 3
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 4
COMM 1010 C132 Elements of Effective Communication 3 4
SCIE 1010 C451 Integrated Natural Science 4 4
SCIE 1015 C452 Integrated Natural Science Applications 4 5
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 5
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 6
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 6
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 6
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 6
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 7
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 7
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 7
BUS 4730 ASC1 Marketing Management Concepts 12 8
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 9
BUS 4740 AST1 Marketing Management Tasks 6 9
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 10
BSMK 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 63
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 4870 QIT1 Business Marketing Management Capstone Written Project 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSMK 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 64
Bachelor of Science, Accounting
The Bachelor of Science in Accounting is a competency-based program that enables professionals in accounting to
earn a Bachelor of Science degree. The Accounting degree is great preparation for a career in accounting in a public
company, non-profit entity, or other organization. This program consists of twelve balanced areas of study, WGU
competency-based assessments, and a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2100 C711 Introduction to Business 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1010 C132 Elements of Effective Communication 3 2
ACCT 2311 VYC1 Principles of Accounting 4 3
SCIE 1010 C451 Integrated Natural Science 4 3
SCIE 1015 C452 Integrated Natural Science Applications 4 3
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 4
ACCT 2320 CZC1 Accounting II 3 4
ACCT 3310 UFC1 Managerial Accounting 3 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 4
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 5
ECON 2100 C719 Macroeconomics 3 5
ECON 2000 C718 Microeconomics 3 5
ECON 3600 FVC1 Global Business 3 5
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 6
FINC 3000 C708 Principles of Finance 3 6
ACCT 3610 C248 Intermediate Accounting I 3 6
MKTG 3000 C712 Marketing Fundamentals 3 6
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 7
ACCT 3630 C237 Taxation I 3 7
ACCT 3620 C249 Intermediate Accounting II 3 7
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 7
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 8
ACCT 4620 C238 Taxation II 3 8
ACCT 3660 C250 Cost and Managerial Accounting 3 8
ACCT 3640 C242 Accounting Information Systems 3 8
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 9
LAW 3000 C713 Business Law 3 9
BSAC 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 65
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ACCT 4650 C241 Business Law for Accountants 3 9
ACCT 4800 C240 Auditing 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 10
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 10
ACCT 4900 C251 Accounting Capstone 5 10
Total CUs: 121
BSAC 201605 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 66
Master of Business Administration
The Master of Business Administration program is specifically designed for experienced business professionals and
managers seeking upward career mobility or professionals who want to broaden their business knowledge.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 1
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 2
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MGMT 6020 C215 Operations Management 3 4
MGMT 6900 C216 MBA Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 34
MBA 201404 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 67
MBA, IT Management
The Master of Business Administration-Information Technology Management is specifically designed for experienced
business professionals and managers seeking upward career mobility in the information technology arena. The
program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-level information technology management position in business,
industry, and non-profit organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
ITM 5000 MGT2 IT Project Management 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
ITM 6000 MMT2 IT Strategic Solutions 4 4
ITM 6900 C218 MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 35
MBAITM 201408 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 68
MBA, Healthcare Management
The Master of Business Administration Healthcare Management is specifically designed for those in an array of
leadership roles as well as those transitioning into healthcare from a different industry to develop strong health care
leaders by strengthening your analytical and critical thinking skills. The program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-
level management position in private and public sectors of the healthcare industry including hospitals, health system
management, consulting, physician practices, and government and non-government agencies.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 1
HCM 5000 AFT2 Accreditation Audit 4 2
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
HCM 6000 AMT2 Service Line Development 4 4
HCM 6900 C219 MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 36
MBAHM 201408 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 69
Master of Science, Integrated Healthcare Management
The Master of Science, Integrated Healthcare Management degree requires completion of project-based courses and
a capstone culminating in 5 core competencies: healthcare strategist, transformational leader, value innovator, tactical
manager, and analyst. The program also embeds themes of person-focused care, professionalism, technology, and
ethics, and fosters innovation and sustainability in healthcare systems. Projects become progressively more complex
as you advance through the curriculum, integrating core competencies to provide key skill sets and a knowledge base
that will foster career development.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
IHCM 5110 C860 Innovation Project 3 1
IHCM 5200 C410 Collaborative Leadership Project 2 1
IHCM 5310 C861 Healthcare Systems Project 3 1
IHCM 5410 C862 Healthcare Quality Project 3 2
IHCM 5510 C863 Healthcare Financial Management Project 3 2
IHCM 5600 C417 Analytical Methods of Healthcare Professionals 2 2
IHCM 6210 C864 Enterprise Risk Management Project 3 3
IHCM 6310 C421 Health Information Technology Project 2 3
IHCM 6410 C865 Population Health and Care Coordination Project 3 3
IHCM 6510 C423 Challenges in Community Health Project 2 4
IHCM 6610 C424 Integrated Healthcare Project 3 4
IHCM 6900 C433 Integrated Healthcare Management Capstone Project 3 4
Total CUs: 32
MSIHCM 201703 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 70
Master of Science, Management and Leadership
The Master of Science, Management and Leadership degree program focuses on management and leadership skills
that can be applied to multiple settings, including business, government, non-profit, or education. The program
prepares you with knowledge and skills to lead through collaboration, team building, interpersonal communication and
virtual environments. You will learn applicable leadership skills to foster creativity, innovation and change. The
program includes topics such as organizational planning, leadership, conflict resolution and negotiation,
communication and other management skills. You will enhance your ability to manage in a dynamic business
environment that promotes growth, creativity and innovation. You will demonstrate the essential leadership practices of
inspiring a vision, encouraging others to act, data-driven strategic planning, ethical reasoning, negotiation, critical
thinking, and complex problem solving, which are all necessary to be successful leaders.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 5020 C203 Becoming an Effective Leader 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
BUS 5000 C201 Business Acumen 3 2
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 2
MGMT 5030 C205 Leading Teams 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MGMT 6040 C208 Change Management and Innovation 3 3
MGMT 6050 C209 Strategic Management 3 4
MGMT 6910 C210 Management and Leadership Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 34
MSML 201404 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 71
Master of Science, Accounting
The Master of Science in Accounting (MAcc) degree provides the advanced accounting knowledge and skills that you
need for a successful career as a professional accountant in public accounting, industry, government and non-profit
organizations. A primary objective of the masters program is to build on the knowledge gained in an undergraduate
accounting program and help prepare you to sit for the CPA (Certified Public Accountant) exam*, the Certified
Management Accounting (CMA) exam, and the Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) exam. This program focuses not only
on the technical and analytical skills necessary for accounting positions, but also incorporates critical communication
and strategic skills required in todays fast changing world. You will learn to assess complex transactions and
determine the proper treatment of those transactions in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP). You will also learn advanced auditing skills to be able to enhance internal controls of an organization and
identify material weaknesses in those controls. You will develop and be able to apply advanced managerial accounting
techniques in real-world situations as well as become familiar with the accounting for governmental and nonprofit
organizations. At the end of this program, you will have gained necessary analytical skills to address complex financial
information and make appropriate recommendations to management. * Students may need to meet additional state-
specific requirements to be eligible to sit for the CPA exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 1
ACCT 5100 C243 Advanced Financial Accounting 3 1
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
ACCT 5200 C252 Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting 3 2
ACCT 6300 C245 Accounting Research 3 2
ACCT 5300 C253 Advanced Managerial Accounting 3 2
ACCT 6000 C254 Fraud and Forensic Accounting 3 3
ACCT 6200 C244 Advanced Auditing 3 3
MGMT 6050 C209 Strategic Management 3 3
ACCT 6100 C239 Advanced Tax Concepts 3 4
Total CUs: 30
MACC 201407 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 72
College of Health Professions
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 73
Bachelor of Science, Nursing
The prelicensure BSN degree focuses on contemporary nursing practices to build nursing skills and competencies
using technology-based learning. It is structured to develop competent, BSN nurses in a program that is sustainable,
scalable, and nationally relevant. The prelicensure BSN program includes a strategic partnership between the Western
Governors University Nursing Program and healthcare employers who provide practice sites and clinical coaches.
Graduates are prepared to function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings. The prelicensure
BSN program includes the study of medical-surgical (including critical care), psychiatric/mental health, pediatrics,
obstetrics, and community health nursing and includes courses on evidence-based practice, research, leadership,
nursing informatics, and professional nursing roles and values. Graduates are eligible to apply to take the NCLEX-RN
exam for state licensure and be prepared to seek nursing positions for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA
appointments as well as assume roles in school, community, and occupational health, and other acute and non-acute
care settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MS, Nursing programs. This degree program includes online
and distance learning plus high fidelity simulation labs and hands on clinical experiences. The WGU prelicensure BS,
Nursing program is evidence-based and developed according to The Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for
Professional Practice from the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2008) (click here to view). In addition, it
incorporates competencies and standards from professional organizations and state regulations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 2
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 2
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 2
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 3
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 3
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 4
NURS 2211 C825 Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science 3 4
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 4
NURS 2410 C486 Organizational Systems: Safety and Regulation 1 4
NURS 2710 C466 Medication Dosage Calculations 1 4
NURS 2060 C467 Pharmacology 2 4
NURS 3510 C468 Information Management and the Application of Technology 3 5
NURS 3210 C469 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I 4 5
NURS 3215 C470 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical 2 5
Learning
NURS 3100 C492 Physical Assessment 4 5
NURS 3220 C471 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II 4 6
NURS 3225 C472 Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II Clinical 2 6
Learning
NURS 3230 C473 Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses 3 6
BSRN 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 74
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 3235 C474 Clinical Learning for Complex Illnesses in Adults 3 6
NURS 2015 C304 Professional Roles and Values 3 7
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 7
NURS 4250 C476 Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing 3 7
NURS 4251 C487 Psych/Mental Health Clinical 2 7
NURS 3310 C465 Care of the Developing Family 4 7
NURS 3320 C477 Nursing Care of Children 4 8
NURS 3418 C826 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 8
NURS 3420 C230 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Clinical 2 8
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 8
NURS 4220 C488 Critical Care Nursing 4 9
NURS 4225 C478 Critical Care Nursing Clinical Learning 2 9
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 9
NURS 4911 C490 Professional Nursing Role Transition 3 9
NURS 4800 C491 Nursing Clinical Practicum 4 10
Total CUs: 120
BSRN 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 75
Bachelor of Science, Nursing
The RN to BSN degree builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma
levels. Initial licensure programs prepare graduates for RN licensure with courses in the biological and social sciences
and nursing. The BSN degree for RNs expands knowledge in areas of research, theory, leadership, community
concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in healthcare. Graduates are prepared to
function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings. Graduates are eligible for military, U.S. Public
Health, and VA appointments as well as roles in school health, community, occupational, and other non-acute care
settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MSN programs. All work in this degree program is online and at a
distance. The WGU RN to BSN program is evidence-based and developed according to The Essentials of
Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice from the American Association of Colleges of Nursing
American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2008) (Available at In addition, it incorporates competencies and
standards from other specialty organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 5
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 5
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 5
NURS 3510 C468 Information Management and the Application of Technology 3 6
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 6
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 6
Experience
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 6
NURS 2015 C304 Professional Roles and Values 3 7
NURS 4910 C493 Leadership and Professional Image 2 7
Total CUs: 120
BSNU 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 76
Master of Science, Nursing - Education
The Master of Science degree is a competency-based program that prepares graduates to be educators in diverse
settings: hospitals, community agencies, schools, industry and businesses, and nursing programs. They provide
education and training to nurses, nursing students, school children, community groups, workers, patients, and
consumers. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing Program Education content is evidence based on national
standards and research related to effective teaching, learning, and role development. It provides the knowledge and
skills that enable educators to teach effectively in diverse learning environments. The Master of Science in Nursing for
Nurse Educators content and processes are consistent with the National League for Nursing (NLN) Nurse Educator
Competencies. The degree program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified educators. The hallmarks of our
program include: (a) research-based course preparation and (b) all work in this degree program is online. This
program consists of developing core knowledge related to complexities of healthcare, access, quality, and costs for
diverse populations. New nursing knowledge includes research, theory, technology applied to nursing practice,
evidence based practice, ethics, and new roles for master's prepared nurses. The nurse educator focuses on learning
styles, the development and socialization of learners, and strategies to facilitate learning. Educators also need to
organize their activities around learning theories. Developing curriculum, objectives, and learning modules are part of
an educator role. The process for assessment, measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is
presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 1
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 1
Technology
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 1
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 2
Practice
NURS 5621 C352 Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics 2 2
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 2
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 3
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 3
NURS 6121 C358 Foundations of Nursing Education 3 3
NURS 6100 C160 Facilitating Learning in the 21st Century 2 4
NURS 6131 C359 Future Directions in Contemporary Learning and Education 2 4
NURS 6201 C821 Nursing Education Field Experience 4 4
NURS 6301 C822 Nurse Educator Capstone 2 5
Total CUs: 36
MSNUED 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 77
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management
The Master of Science, Nursing-Leadership and Management is a competency-based program that prepares
graduates to be leaders and managers in diverse settings: hospitals, long term care facilities, community service
agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. They use their organizational, analytic,
strategicplanning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills to services in diverse nursing and healthcare
settings. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing, Leadership and Management program content is evidence based on
national standards and research related to creating work environments that are collaborative, interdisciplinary, and
promote effective functioning in complex nursing and healthcare environments. The Master of Science in Nursing-
Leadership/Management content and processes are consistent with the American Nurses Association (ANA)
Standards for Nurse Administrators and the AONE competencies for nursing managers and executives. The degree
program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified nurse administrators (nurse managers and nurse executives).
This program consists of developing core knowledge related to complexities of healthcare, access, quality, and costs
for diverse populations. New nursing knowledge includes research, theory, technology applied to nursing practice,
evidence based practice, ethics, and new roles for master's prepared nurses. The nurse leadership/management
focuses on organizational and leadership theories, strategic planning, regulatory standards, risk management,
principles of financial management, and concepts of human resource management. A case study approach is used to
examine organizational, financial, and personnel issues and their resolution. The process for assessment,
measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 1
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 1
Technology
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 1
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 2
Practice
NURS 5621 C352 Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics 2 2
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 2
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 3
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 3
NURS 6400 C161 Principles of Organizational Performance Management 2 3
NURS 6420 C162 Principles of Healthcare Business and Financial Management 3 3
NURS 6430 C163 Strategic Leadership and Future Delivery Models 2 4
NURS 6501 C823 Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience 4 4
NURS 6601 C824 Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone 2 4
Total CUs: 36
MSNULM 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 78
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a
rewarding career as a specialist in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge,
skills, and expertise to design, develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery
of safe, efficient and high-quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU M.S. Nursing Informatics program apply
systems-thinking strategies to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and distribution of
healthcare needs in diverse populations. This program prepares students to select and use contemporary technologies
to collaborate with interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of health education programs,
evidence-based practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing science, computer science
and information science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced informatics skills to improve
health outcomes, such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters degree program supports
students in applying their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to real-world situations
where the use of information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and coordinating care
across multiple settings. Graduates of the WGU masters-degree Nursing Informatics program are prepared to gather,
document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a foundation for data-driven decisions that inform practice
processes and the implementation of interventions or strategies to improve healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 1
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 1
Technology
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 1
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 2
Practice
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 2
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 2
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 3
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 3
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 3
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 4
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management Systems 2 4
NURS 6020 C793 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 4
NURS 6030 C794 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 5
Total CUs: 36
MSNUNI 201702 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 79
Master of Science, Nursing - Education
The Masters of Science in Nursing (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program that builds on the
foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the degree
focuses on contemporary nursing practice in the developing of skills and competencies using technology-based
learning. It is structured to develop high quality, highly educated BSN nurses preparing graduates who are equipped to
function in new roles as members of health care teams in many settings by expanding nurses knowledge in areas of
research, theory, community concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in healthcare.
Graduates will be eligible for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA appointments as well as assume roles in school
health, community, occupational, and other nonacute care settings. The Master of Science portion of the degree
further prepares graduates to be leaders and managers in diverse settings: hospitals, long-term care facilities,
community service agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. They use their organizational,
analytic, strategic planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills to services in diverse nursing and
healthcare settings.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 6
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 6
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 7
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 7
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 7
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 8
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 8
Experience
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 8
Technology
NURS 5010 C128 Advanced Professional Roles and Values 2 9
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 9
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 9
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 9
Development
MSRNNUEDGR 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 80
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 10
Practice
NURS 5621 C352 Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics 2 10
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 11
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 11
NURS 6121 C358 Foundations of Nursing Education 3 11
NURS 6100 C160 Facilitating Learning in the 21st Century 2 12
NURS 6131 C359 Future Directions in Contemporary Learning and Education 2 12
NURS 6201 C821 Nursing Education Field Experience 4 12
NURS 6301 C822 Nurse Educator Capstone 2 13
Total CUs: 150
MSRNNUEDGR 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 81
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management
The Masters of Science in Nursing (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program that builds on the
foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the degree
focuses on contemporary nursing practice in the developing of skills and competencies using technology-based
learning. It is structured to develop high quality, highly educated BSN nurses preparing graduates who are equipped to
function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings by expanding nurses knowledge in areas of
research, theory, community concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in health care.
Graduates will be eligible for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA appointments as well as assume roles in school
health, community, occupational, and other nonacute care settings. The Master of Science portion of the degree
further prepares graduates to be leaders and managers in diverse settings; hospitals, long-term care facilities,
community service agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. They use their organizational,
analytic, strategic planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills to services in diverse nursing and
healthcare settings.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 6
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 6
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 7
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 7
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 7
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 8
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 8
Experience
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 8
Technology
NURS 5010 C128 Advanced Professional Roles and Values 2 9
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 9
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 9
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 9
Development
MSRNNULMGR 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 82
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 10
Practice
NURS 5621 C352 Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics 2 10
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 11
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 11
NURS 6400 C161 Principles of Organizational Performance Management 2 11
NURS 6420 C162 Principles of Healthcare Business and Financial Management 3 11
NURS 6430 C163 Strategic Leadership and Future Delivery Models 2 12
NURS 6501 C823 Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience 4 12
NURS 6601 C824 Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone 2 12
Total CUs: 150
MSRNNULMGR 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 83
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program that
builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the
degree focuses on contemporary nursing practice in the developing of skills and competencies using technology-
based learning. The master of science portion of the degree prepares graduates for a rewarding career as a specialist
in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge, skills, and expertise to design,
develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery of safe, efficient and high-
quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU M.S. Nursing Informatics program apply systems-thinking strategies
to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and distribution of healthcare needs in diverse
populations. This program prepares students to select and use contemporary technologies to collaborate with
interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of health education programs, evidence-based
practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing science, computer science and information
science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced informatics skills to improve health outcomes,
such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters degree program supports students in applying
their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to real-world situations where the use of
information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and coordinating care across multiple
settings. Graduates are prepared to gather, document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a foundation for
data-driven decisions that inform practice processes and the implementation of interventions or strategies to improve
healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
COMM 3113 C820 Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare 2 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 2
BIO 2011 C405 Anatomy and Physiology II 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
NURS 2300 C453 Clinical Microbiology 4 4
PSYC 2010 C217 Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan 3 4
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
CHEM 3503 C785 Biochemistry 3 5
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 6
NURS 3330 C475 Care of the Older Adult 3 6
NURS 3112 C349 Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 3418 C228 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing 3 7
NURS 4011 C361 Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research 3 7
NURS 2035 C787 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science 3 7
NURS 4210 C489 Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership 3 8
NURS 3419 C229 Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field 2 8
Experience
NURS 5510 C791 Advanced Information Management and the Application of 3 8
Technology
NURS 5010 C128 Advanced Professional Roles and Values 2 9
MSRNNUNIFGR 201703 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 84
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5121 C351 Professional Presence and Influence 2 9
NURS 5110 C301 Translational Research for Practice and Populations 2 9
NURS 5600 C158 Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team 3 9
Development
NURS 5130 C155 Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing 3 10
Practice
NURS 5495 C350 Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 5520 C157 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience 2 10
NURS 5610 C159 Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends 3 11
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 11
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 11
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 12
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management Systems 2 12
NURS 6020 C793 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 12
NURS 6030 C794 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 13
Total CUs: 150
MSRNNUNIFGR 201703 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 85
College of Information Technology
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 86
Bachelor of Science, Data Management/Data Analytics
The B.S. in Data Management/Data Analytics is designed to prepare database professionals who can set up a
database environment, design databases, acqiure data, wrangle it, analyze it, and visualize it to different audiences as
part of the decision-making process
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 3
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 3
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 4
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 4
PHYS 1010 C164 Introduction to Physics 4 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 4
ITEC 2203 C169 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 5
ITEC 2214 C189 Data Structures 4 5
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 5
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 5
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 6
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 6
DTSC 3310 C754 Structured Query Language 4 7
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 7
DTSC 3320 C755 Database Server Administration 6 7
DTSC 3210 C749 Introduction to Data Science 4 8
DTMG 3210 C750 Data Wrangling with MongoDB 3 8
DTAN 3210 C751 Data Analysis with R 2 8
DTSC 3220 C753 Machine Learning 3 8
DTAN 3220 C752 Data Visualization 3 9
DTAN 4020 C756 Data Analytics 4 9
BSDMDA 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 87
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 120
BSDMDA 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 88
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology
The WGU Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (IT) program provides a solid foundation in computer
information systems and technologies. In addition to the IT content, the degree program includes a broad collegiate-
level education. The program is primarily designed for those seeking a career or to advance their current career as
information technology professionals by developing levels of expertise required for increased responsibility in the
information technology field. The foundation of the Bachelor of Science program consists of five domains of study:
systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data management, and the business of IT.
At the end of the program, students develop a comprehensive portfolio and complete a capstone project. Students
who are seeking a specialization in software development, networks, database, or security can complete the basic IT
degree program and pass additional assessments to earn one of these designated emphases.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 2
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 3
MATH 1709 C277 Finite Mathematics 4 4
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 4
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 5
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 5
ITEC 3659 C697 Operating Systems I 4 5
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
ITEC 3669 C698 Operating Systems II 4 6
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 6
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 6
BUS 3430 EST1 Ethical Situations in Business 3 7
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 7
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 7
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 8
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 8
BSIT 201702 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 89
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 8
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 9
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 120
BSIT 201702 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 90
Bachelor of Science, IT - Networks Administration Emphasis
The WGU Bachelor of Science in Information Technology with Network Administration emphasis program provides a
solid foundation in computer information systems and technologies. In addition to the IT content, the degree program
includes a broad collegiate-level education. The program is primarily designed for those seeking a career or to
advance their current career as network systems administrators by developing levels of expertise required for
increased responsibility in the information technology field. The foundation of the Bachelor of Science program
consists of five domains of study: systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data
management, and the business of IT. At the end of the program, students develop a comprehensive portfolio and
complete a capstone project. Students seeking the BS in IT with Network Administration emphasis demonstrate
additional competencies in this area by taking and passing specific industry certification exams, including the Microsoft
Certified Solutions Associate on Windows Server 2012.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 2
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
INTE 2000 ABV1 Operating Systems 6 4
ITEC 3659 C697 Operating Systems I 4 4
ITEC 3669 C698 Operating Systems II 4 5
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 5
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 5
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 5
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 6
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 6
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 7
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
ITEC 3311 C185 Network Policies and Services Management 6 8
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 8
BSITNW 201702 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 91
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 3741 C186 Server Administration 6 8
ITEC 3341 C187 Network Reliability and Fault Tolerance 6 9
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 122
BSITNW 201702 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 92
Bachelor of Science, IT - Security Emphasis
The Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (IT) with Security emphasis provides a solid foundation in
computer information systems and technologies. In addition to the IT content, the degree program includes a broad,
collegiate-level education. The program is primarily designed for those seeking a career or to advance their current
career as network and security administrators by developing levels of expertise required for increased responsibility in
the information technology field. The foundation of the Bachelor of Science program consists of five domains of study:
systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data management, and the business of IT.
At the end of the program, students develop a comprehensive portfolio and complete a capstone project. Students
seeking the BS in IT with Security emphasis demonstrate additional competencies in this area by taking and passing
specific industry certification exams including the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Security certification and
the Cisco CCNA Routing and Switching certification. Students who have passed these exams prior to enrollment will
have the requirements waived.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 2
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 2
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
ITEC 3659 C697 Operating Systems I 4 4
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
ITEC 3669 C698 Operating Systems II 4 5
ITEC 3701 C480 Networks 4 5
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 5
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 6
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 6
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 6
ITEC 3731 C246 Fundamentals of Interconnecting Network Devices 6 6
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 7
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2202 C178 Network and Security - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
BSITSEC 201702 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 93
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 8
ITEC 3751 C247 Interconnecting Network Devices 6 8
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 8
ITEC 3831 C299 Designing Customized Security 6 9
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
Total CUs: 123
BSITSEC 201702 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 94
Bachelor of Science, Software Development
The B.S. in Software Development program is designed to meet this growing need while preparing experienced
information technology professionals for successful careers as software designers and developers.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 1
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
ITEC 2103 C173 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 2
ITWD 3100 C779 Web Development Foundations 3 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
GEOG 1311 C255 Introduction to Geography 3 3
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
ITEC 2021 C393 IT Foundations 4 4
ITEC 2031 C394 IT Applications 4 4
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 4
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 5
ITEC 2203 C169 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 5
ITEC 2220 C768 Technical Communication 3 5
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 5
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2204 C170 Data Management - Applications 4 6
ITEC 2211 C191 Operating Systems for Programmers 3 6
ITEC 2213 C188 Software Engineering 4 6
ITEC 3003 C192 Data Management for Programmers 3 7
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 7
ITEC 3014 C482 Software I 6 7
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 8
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 8
ITEC 3023 C195 Software II - Advanced Java Concepts 6 8
ITEC 3002 C193 Client-Server Application Development 3 9
ITEC 3033 C196 Mobile Application Development 3 9
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 9
BSITSW 201703 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 95
Total CUs: 122
BSITSW 201703 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 96
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management
The Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management provides a solid foundation in computer information
systems and technologies for healthcare organizations including healthcare regulation, project management of health
systems, databases, and security. In addition to the health information management content, the degree program
includes a broad collegiate education. The program is designed for those who have some technical or clinical
knowledge in a health care environment and are ready to move to increased levels of expertise and knowledge in the
health information management field. The health information management component of the Bachelor of Science
program consists of the following areas of study: Healthcare Data, Health Information Technology, Medical
Terminology, Pathophysiology and Pharmacology. There are a number of other areas of study that students master
including Fundamentals of IT in Healthcare, Legal and Ethical Considerations in Healthcare, Leadership and
Management, Anatomy and Physiology, Healthcare Compliance and Coding, Project Management, Financial
Resource Management, and Healthcare Statistics. There are two professional practice experiences required with a
portfolio project in each. At the end of the program students complete a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HIM 2011 C799 Healthcare Ecosystems 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 1
HLTH 2100 C763 Healthcare Information Systems Management 3 1
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
HIM 2215 C801 Health Information Law and Regulations 4 2
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 2
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 3
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 3
HLTH 3501 C501 Healthcare Informatics 4 3
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
HLTH 2315 C257 Data Analytics and Information Governance 4 4
BIO 2010 C107 Anatomy and Physiology I 4 4
HIM 2150 C804 Medical Terminology 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 5
HCM 2507 C805 Pathophysiology 3 5
HLTH 2508 C508 Pharmacology 3 5
HIM 3215 C807 Healthcare Compliance 3 5
MATH 1030 C459 Introduction to Probability and Statistics 3 6
HLTH 2515 C260 Classification Systems 4 6
ITEC 2105 C176 Business of IT - Project Management 4 6
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 6
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 7
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 7
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 7
HIM 3701 C811 Healthcare Financial Resource Management 4 7
BSHIM 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 97
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HIM 4610 C812 Healthcare Reimbursement 4 8
HLTH 4502 C502 Healthcare Statistics and Research 3 8
HLTH 4509 C509 Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Technical 3 8
Level
HIM 4511 C815 Quality and Performance Management and Methods 4 8
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 9
HLTH 4504 C504 Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Management 4 9
Level
HLTH 4506 C506 Health Informatics Capstone Project 4 9
Total CUs: 120
BSHIM 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 98
Master of Science, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance prepares security professionals to protect an
organization's operations in the cyberspace by providing them with the tools, techniques, and standards required to
prevent, detect, and counteract cyberattacks. The program not only focuses on keeping infrastructure safe but also the
assurance of information covering subjects ranging from cryptography to business continuity planning and disaster
recovery.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITAS 5210 C688 Cyberwarfare 3 1
BUSI 6100 JIT2 Risk Management 2 1
ITEC 5510 TFT2 Cyberlaw, Regulations, and Compliance 3 1
ITSA 5220 C700 Secure Network Design 3 2
ITEC 5850 VLT2 Security Policies and Standards - Best Practices 3 2
ITAS 5230 C706 Secure Software Design 2 2
ITAS 5300 C701 Ethical Hacking 4 3
ITAS 6300 C702 Forensics and Network Intrusion 4 3
ITEC 6100 FXT2 Disaster Recovery Planning, Prevention and Response 2 4
ITEC 6700 LQT2 Information Security and Assurance Capstone Project 4 4
Total CUs: 30
MSCSIA 201603 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 99
Master of Science, Data Analytics
The MS Data Analytics degree prepares statisticians, analysts, data managers, programmers, and other business and
IT professionals for successful and rewarding careers in the high-demand field of data analytics through cutting-edge
courses in data mining, manipulation, analysis, and visualization. The program empowers graduates to use powerful
tools to implement industry standard techniques in order to solve problems, identify trends, and make predictions.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 5110 C740 Fundamentals of Data Analytics 2 1
MATH 5720 C741 Statistics for Data Analysis 3 1
DTSC 5110 C742 Data Science Tools and Techniques 3 1
DTAN 5210 C743 Data Mining and Analytics I 3 2
DTAN 6220 C744 Data Mining and Analytics II 3 2
DTAN 6110 C745 Advanced Data Visualization 3 2
DTAN 6120 C746 Advanced SQL 4 3
DTAN 6310 C747 SAS Programming I: Fundamentals 4 3
DTAN 6320 C748 SAS Programming II: Business Analysis Applications 4 4
DTAN 6410 C772 Data Analytics Graduate Capstone 3 4
Total CUs: 32
MSDA 201612 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 100
Master of Science, Information Technology Management
The Master of Science in Information Technology Management is a competency-based degree program that
represents a path for successful IT professionals to launch their careers and build them to an executive level. The
graduate will advance his or her knowledge and skills through a practical, real-world program based on sound
principles of Information Technology revolving around three primary themes: communication, technical competence
and strategic vision: effective communication as essential to management at all levels, in all areas of human endeavor;
and strategic vision that takes individuals and organizations beyond immediate difficulties and successes to a
perception of future challenges and preparations to meet those challenges.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 6500 MCT2 Technical Writing 3 1
ITM 5320 C783 Project Management 4 1
BUSI 6100 JIT2 Risk Management 2 1
ITEC 5510 TFT2 Cyberlaw, Regulations, and Compliance 3 2
INTE 5300 LZT2 Power, Influence and Leadership 3 2
ITEC 5400 SJT2 Advanced Networking Technology 3 2
ITEC 6100 FXT2 Disaster Recovery Planning, Prevention and Response 2 3
ITEC 6300 MAT2 Information Technology Management 3 3
ITEC 6400 MBT2 Technological Globalization 3 3
ITEC 6901 C498 MS, Information Technology Management Capstone 4 4
Total CUs: 30
MSITM 201611 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 101
Teachers College
Special Teachers College Program Requirements: Initial Licensure Programs
http://www.wgu.edu/education/teacher_certification
Students who are seeking initial teacher licensure in a bachelor’s, post-baccalaureate, or master’s of arts in teaching
program must complete WGU and/or state-specific requirements (http://www.wgu.edu/education/teaching_license)
throughout their program, including:
1. Pass a Background Check
WGU requires all teacher certification program candidates to provide the university with verification of a cleared
background check prior to entering the classroom for preclinical experiences and Demonstration Teaching. Previously
completed background checks may not satisfy WGU background check requirements. In some states, more than one
background check may be required. In addition, most states require that applicants for teacher certification complete a
background check for the Department of Education prior to submitting all application paperwork. This is a necessary
precaution designed to prevent those who may pose a danger to the students in the classroom. Candidates must be at
least 18 years of age before they may begin the application process or participate in preclinical experiences and
Demonstration Teaching.
2. Pass Basic Skills, Content, and Pedagogy Exams
Each state has specific testing requirements that must be met or completed in addition to completing a teaching degree
program at WGU. WGU requires students to complete and pass:
● Basic Skills Exam: Pass the Basic Skills Exam required by your state for certification, or a designated Basic Skills
Exam if your state does not require one.
● Content Exam: You must pass the designated Content Exam(s) required by your state in order to graduate from
your program.
● WGU Program Exam: WGU also requires you to pass a specific Praxis exam to graduate from your program (with
the exception of Elementary programs), often in addition to any certification exam required by your state.
● Pedagogy Exam: Finally, some states require the completion of a Pedagogy Exam, which assess your knowledge
of teaching methods.
3. Complete Preclinical Experiences
In preparation for your formal Demonstration Teaching (described in step 5 below), you will complete preclinical
experiences designed to introduce you to the classroom through a series of activities, including observations and lesson
planning. Working under the guidance of a WGU Placement Specialist, you will be asked to make arrangements with a
local school to complete these activities.
4. Complete a Term of In-Classroom Student Teaching (Demonstration Teaching)
Demonstration Teaching (or student teaching) is a critical component of any teaching degree program. This in-
classroom experience is invaluable in helping to integrate the academic knowledge and teaching skills you’ve developed
to this point into a practical application that will prepare you to tackle the challenges of your own classroom effectively
and with confidence.
Demonstration Teaching (DT) at WGU covers the competencies required for in-classroom proficiency. DT is a full-time,
supervised, in-classroom experience of a minimum of 12–20 weeks. During Demonstration Teaching, you will be hosted
by an experienced teacher. You will undergo a series of at least six observations by a Clinical Supervisor and also
receive evaluations from your Host Teacher to evaluate your performance based on accepted professional standards.
As you approach your Demonstration Teaching, a WGU Placement Specialist will work with you to set up your
placement. The process of scheduling your DT placement may take up to six months. You may be required to assist in
the process of setting up your placement. In some cases, you may be required to commute up to two hours (or in rare
cases longer than this). Note that students are not permitted to work during their Demonstration Teaching experience.
You must be at least 18 years of age before you may begin the application process or participate in preclinical
experiences or Demonstration Teaching.
Demonstration Teaching may not be waived and prior experience may not be used to satisfy this requirement as you
must demonstrate competency in the classroom in order to complete your WGU degree program.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 102
5. Meet Any Additional State Certification Requirements
Some states have additional requirements for certification, such as coursework not included in your WGU program, CPR
certification, or workshops. The Teacher Licensure Department maintains information on individual state requirements.
Special Teachers College Program Requirements: Advanced Programs
http://www.wgu.edu/education/masters_degree
Certain Teachers College Graduate Programs have specific WGU and/or state-specific requirements, including all
Special Education, Mathematics Education, Science Education, English Language Learning, and Educational
Leadership programs. These requirements include:
1. Pass a Background Check
WGU requires students in specified graduate programs to provide the university with verification of a cleared
background check prior to entering the classroom for any field experiences. Previously completed background checks
may not satisfy WGU background check requirements. In some states, more than one background check may be
required. In some cases, verification of a valid teaching certificate may satisfy the background check requirement.
Students should consult with the Field Experiences and Teacher Licensure Departments for more information on
background check requirements.
2. Pass Content Exam(s)
WGU requires students to complete and pass:
● WGU Program Exam: WGU requires you to pass a specific Praxis exam to graduate from your program, often in
addition to any certification exam required by your state.
● Content Exam: If you plan to apply for an additional endorsement/certificate upon completion of your program, you
must pass the designated Content Exam(s) required by your state in order to graduate from your program.
Educational Leadership students must always pass the state required content exam to graduate, regardless of
whether or not they plan to apply for certification.
3. Complete Field Experiences
Students in advanced programs complete a field experience or practicum, often as a culminating experience at the end
of the program. Field experiences vary by program and state. Minimum requirements at WGU include:
● Mathematics Education and Science Education: Two-week* unit of instruction.
● Special Education: 240-hour* practicum.
● English Language Learning: 30-hour* practicum
● Educational Leadership: 150-hour* practicum.
* Some states may require additional hours beyond WGU’s minimum requirements. For example, some Educational
Leadership students may be required to complete 540 or more hours depending on state requirements. The Field
Experiences and Teacher Licensure Departments maintain information on current state requirements and detailed field
experience requirements by program.
4. Meet Any Additional State Certification Requirements
Students who plan to seek an additional endorsement/certificate upon completion of their program may need to
complete additional state-specific requirements for certification, such as coursework not included in your WGU program,
CPR certification, or workshops. The Teacher Licensure Department maintains information on individual state
requirements.
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 103
Bachelor of Arts, Interdisciplinary Studies (K-8)
The Bachelor of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (K-8) is a competency-based program that enables teacher
candidates to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree and a K-8 teaching certificate online (except for the in-classroom
component demonstration teaching, and options for in-classroom field experiences prior to demonstration teaching).
This program consists of four balanced areas of study (domains), competency-based assessments, and the creation of
a professional portfolio. This program includes a supervised teaching practicum in a real classroom and thus prepares
students for initial teacher licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness and Wellness 4 1
MATH 1000 C457 Foundations of College Mathematics 3 1
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 2
MATH 1310 C460 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 2
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MATH 1320 C461 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
EDUC 2240 EFP1 Cultural Studies and Diversity 3 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
MATH 1330 C462 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 5
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 5
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 5
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 5
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 6
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 6
EDUC 3220 C368 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary 3 6
Education
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 6
EDUC 4210 C366 Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods 3 7
EDUC 2211 C269 Children's Literature 3 7
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 7
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 7
EDUC 4240 C108 Elementary Science Methods 3 8
EDUC 4250 C104 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 8
BAISK8 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 104
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4260 C105 Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 3 8
EDUC 4270 C367 Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods 3 8
EDUC 3410 AEP1 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 3 9
EDUC 4921 C307 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4922 C308 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4923 C309 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4924 C310 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 10
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4750 C828 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 120
BAISK8 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 105
Bachelor of Arts, Mathematics (5-9)
The Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics (5-9) is a competency-based program that prepares students to be licensed as
mathematics teachers in grades 5-9. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration
Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. This program consists of work in General Education,
Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, Mathematics Content, and Instructional Planning and Presentation.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
MATH 2708 C306 Finite Mathematics 4 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 2305 C279 Pre-Calculus 4 2
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
MATH 2505 C280 Probability and Statistics I 4 2
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 2
MATH 3205 C281 College Geometry 4 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 3
MATH 4305 C286 Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge 7 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2240 EFP1 Cultural Studies and Diversity 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 5
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 5
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 5
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 5
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 6
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 7
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3221 C113 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 3 7
EDUC 4315 C284 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 4 8
EDUC 3411 AGP1 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 3 8
EDUC 4305 C285 Mathematics History and Technology 4 8
EDUC 4932 C315 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observations 1 and 2
BAMA9 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 106
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4933 C316 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4934 C317 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4935 C318 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4752 C830 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BAMA9 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 107
Bachelor of Arts, Mathematics (5-12)
The Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics (5-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students to be
licensed as mathematics teachers in grades 5-12. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the
Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of work in Mathematics
Content, Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation and Mathematics
Education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 1
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 2305 C279 Pre-Calculus 4 1
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
MATH 2505 C280 Probability and Statistics I 4 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
MATH 3205 C281 College Geometry 4 2
MATH 2520 TQC1 Probability and Statistics II 3 3
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 3
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 4
MATH 2000 C362 Calculus I 4 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 5
MATH 2415 C283 Calculus II 4 5
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 5
MATH 3410 SRT1 Calculus III and Analysis 3 5
MATH 4315 C287 Mathematics: Content Knowledge 7 6
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 6
MATH 3310 RKT1 Linear Algebra 3 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3221 C113 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 3 7
EDUC 4315 C284 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 4 8
EDUC 3414 ASP1 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 3 8
MATH 3320 QDT1 Abstract Algebra 3 8
EDUC 4305 C285 Mathematics History and Technology 4 8
EDUC 4932 C315 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
BAMA12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 108
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 4933 C316 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4934 C317 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 4935 C318 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 9
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 4752 C830 Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BAMA12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 109
Bachelor of Arts, Science (5-9)
The Bachelor of Arts in Science (5-9) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students to be licensed as
science teachers in grades 5-9. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration
Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of work in General Education,
Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, General Science Content, Science Education and Instructional
Planning and Presentation.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 3
CHEM 2107 C288 General Chemistry I 4 3
CHEM 2109 TSP1 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
BIO 2100 RJT1 Principles of Biology 5 4
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 5
GEOS 2100 QQT1 Earth and Space Science 5 5
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 5
PHYS 2100 RNT1 General Physics 5 5
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
SCIE 4405 C293 Middle School Science: Content Knowledge 9 6
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 8
EDUC 3412 AFP1 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4415 C292 Science Teaching and Learning 4 8
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
BASC9 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 110
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BASC9 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 111
Bachelor of Arts, Science (5-12, Bio)
The Bachelor of Arts in Science (5-12, Biological Science) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students to be licensed as biology teachers in grades 5-12. All work in this degree program is online with the exception
of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of work in
General Education, Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, General Science and Advanced Biology Content,
Science Education, Pre-Clinical Experiences and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MATH 2505 C280 Probability and Statistics I 4 3
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 3
CHEM 2107 C288 General Chemistry I 4 4
CHEM 2109 TSP1 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
CHEM 2207 C289 General Chemistry II 4 4
CHEM 2209 TUP1 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 5
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 5
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 5
BIO 2100 RJT1 Principles of Biology 5 5
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
BIO 4734 C757 Advanced Biology 4 6
BIO 3261 C736 Evolution 4 6
BIO 4405 C294 Biology: Content Knowledge 7 7
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 8
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 8
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 8
EDUC 3415 ATP1 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4415 C292 Science Teaching and Learning 4 9
BASCB12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 112
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 10
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 10
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 124
BASCB12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 113
Bachelor of Arts, Science (5-12, Chemistry)
The Bachelor of Arts in Science (5-12, Chemistry) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students to
be licensed as chemistry teachers in grades 5-12. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the
Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of work in General
Education, Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, General Science and Chemistry Content, Instructional
Planning and Presentation, Pre-Clinical Experiences, and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 2305 C279 Pre-Calculus 4 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 1
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 3
CHEM 2107 C288 General Chemistry I 4 3
CHEM 2109 TSP1 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 3
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
CHEM 2207 C289 General Chemistry II 4 4
CHEM 2209 TUP1 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 4
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 4
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 4
CHEM 3310 BVT1 Physical Chemistry 3 5
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 5
CHEM 3300 BWT1 Inorganic Chemistry 3 5
CHEM 2300 UQT1 Organic Chemistry 3 5
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 6
EDUC 3512 C264 Climate Change 4 6
CHEM 3501 C624 Biochemistry 3 6
CHEM 4405 C295 Chemistry: Content Knowledge 7 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 7
EDUC 3416 AUP1 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4415 C292 Science Teaching and Learning 4 8
BASCCH12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 114
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 121
BASCCH12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 115
Bachelor of Arts, Science (5-12, Geo)
The Bachelor of Arts in Science (5-12, Geosciences) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students
to be licensed as earth and space science teachers in grades 5-12. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of
work in General Education, Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation,
General Science Content, Science Education, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Pre-Clinical Experiences and
Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
MATH 1010 C463 Intermediate Algebra 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 1
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MATH 2305 C279 Pre-Calculus 4 3
CHEM 2107 C288 General Chemistry I 4 3
CHEM 2109 TSP1 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 3
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 4
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 4
CHEM 2207 C289 General Chemistry II 4 4
CHEM 2209 TUP1 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 5
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 5
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 5
GEOS 2100 QQT1 Earth and Space Science 5 5
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 6
EDUC 3511 C263 The Ocean Systems 4 6
EDUC 3510 C262 Advanced Geosciences 4 6
GEOS 4405 C296 Earth Science: Content Knowledge 7 7
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 7
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 8
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 8
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 8
EDUC 3417 AVP1 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4415 C292 Science Teaching and Learning 4 9
BASCG12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 116
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 10
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 10
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 10
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 10
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 10
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 10
Total CUs: 121
BASCG12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 117
Bachelor of Arts, Science (5-12, Physics)
The Bachelor of Arts in Science (5-12, Physics) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students to be
licensed as physics teachers in grades 5-12. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the
Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. The program consists of work in General
Education, Teacher Education Foundations and Diversity, General Science and Physics Content, Science Education,
Instructional Planning and Presentation, Pre-Clinical Experiences and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 1
MATH 2305 C279 Pre-Calculus 4 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 2
MATH 2405 C282 Calculus I 4 2
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 3
CHEM 2107 C288 General Chemistry I 4 3
CHEM 2109 TSP1 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 3
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 3
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 3
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 4
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 4
MATH 2415 C283 Calculus II 4 4
CHEM 2207 C289 General Chemistry II 4 4
CHEM 2209 TUP1 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 5
PHYS 2300 BYT1 Physics: Mechanics 3 5
PHYS 2310 BZT1 Physics: Waves and Optics 3 5
PHYS 2320 DPT1 Physics: Electricity and Magnetism 3 5
EDUC 4409 C388 Science, Technology, and Society 5 5
PHYS 3262 C738 Space, Time and Motion 4 6
PHYS 4405 C297 Physics: Content Knowledge 7 6
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 7
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 7
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 7
EDUC 3222 C369 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 3 7
EDUC 3418 AWP1 Preclinical Experiences in Science 3 8
EDUC 4415 C292 Science Teaching and Learning 4 8
BASCPH12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 118
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 4945 C319 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
1 and 2
EDUC 4946 C320 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 9
and Midterm
EDUC 4947 C321 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 9
4 and 5
EDUC 4948 C322 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 9
and Final
EDUC 4795 C762 Teacher Performance Assessment in Science 2 9
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 9
EDUC 4990 C341 Cohort Seminar 3 9
Total CUs: 122
BASCPH12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 119
Bachelor of Arts, Special Education
The Bachelor of Arts in Special Education (K-12), Cross-Categorical Model, is a competency-based program that
enables teacher candidates to earn a Bachelor of Arts in Special Education (BASP) degree and leads to an initial dual
licensure in Special Education (K-12) and Elementary Education (K-8) teaching certificate online (except for the in-
classroom component Demonstration Teaching and options for in-classroom field experiences prior to Demonstration
Teaching). This program consists of four balanced areas of study (domains), competency-based assessments, and
the creation of a professional portfolio. It includes a supervised teaching practicum that consists of two placements,
one in an elementary classroom and one in a middle or secondary level classroom. Both placements should support
the academic needs of students with mild-to-moderate disabilities. The Special Education Cross-Categorical Model is
a specifically designed program for the education and training of prospective teachers to work with students with
mild/moderate disabilities in a variety of school settings, including inclusionary K-12 classrooms, resource rooms or
selfcontained classrooms; serve as teacher of record K-8, as well as teach all basic school subjects in the elementary
education classroom. With the successful completion of required assessments in the major area of teaching, the
student can receive institutional recommendation for certification in special education and in elementary education.
During the required major or sequence of the standard path, students gain knowledge, skills, and competencies
essential to effective teaching while being involved in field-based experiences.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness and Wellness 4 1
MATH 1000 C457 Foundations of College Mathematics 3 1
EDUC 2210 C272 Foundational Perspectives of Education 3 1
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 1
POLS 1020 C181 Survey of United States Constitution and Government 3 2
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 2
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 2
MATH 1310 C460 Mathematics for Elementary Educators I 3 2
HIST 1310 C375 Survey of World History 3 3
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 3
MATH 1320 C461 Mathematics for Elementary Educators II 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
EDUC 2240 EFP1 Cultural Studies and Diversity 3 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
MATH 1330 C462 Mathematics for Elementary Educators III 3 4
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 4
EDUC 2260 C734 Psychology for Educators 3 5
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 5
EDUC 2311 C847 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 3 5
SPED 4510 FCC1 Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal Issues 4 5
EDUC 2320 NBT1 Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation 3 6
EDUC 3110 DRC1 Educational Assessment 3 6
SPED 4520 FJC1 Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP 4 6
Development/Implementation
EDUC 3120 NHC1 Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation 3 6
BASP 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 120
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 3223 C133 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary and 3 7
Special Education
EDUC 3310 ABP1 Introduction to Preclinical Experiences 3 7
EDUC 4210 C366 Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods 3 7
EDUC 2211 C269 Children's Literature 3 7
EDUC 4220 C365 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 3 8
SPED 4530 EFV1 Behavioral Management and Intervention 4 8
EDUC 4230 C109 Elementary Mathematics Methods 3 8
EDUC 4240 C108 Elementary Science Methods 3 8
EDUC 4250 C104 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 9
EDUC 4260 C105 Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 3 9
EDUC 4270 C367 Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods 3 9
SPED 4540 FLC1 Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and Culturally 3 9
Response Teaching
EDUC 3413 ALP1 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education 3 10
EDUC 4951 C311 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 1 and 2
EDUC 4952 C312 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 3 and Midterm
EDUC 4953 C313 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 4 and 5
EDUC 4954 C314 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education, Obs 6 and Final
EDUC 4751 C829 Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary and Special 2 12
Education
EDUC 4960 C348 Professional Portfolio 1 11
EDUC 4989 C340 Cohort Seminar in Special Education 3 12
Total CUs: 135
BASP 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 121
Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Elementary Education (K-8)
The Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Elementary (K-8) program is a competency-based program that enables
teacher candidates to earn a K-8 teaching certificate online (except for the in-classroom component demonstration
teaching, and in-classroom field experiences prior to demonstration teaching). This program consists of three balanced
areas of study, performance- and competency-based assessments, and the creation of a professional portfolio. The
program also includes an early field experience and a supervised teaching practicum in a real classroom and thus
prepares students for initial teacher licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5220 C141 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary 2 1
Education
MATH 5010 C682 Mathematics for Elementary Educators 3 1
EDUC 6999 C379 Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods 2 2
EDUC 6380 C380 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 2 2
EDUC 6202 C381 Elementary Mathematics Methods 2 2
EDUC 6203 C382 Elementary Science Methods 2 2
EDUC 6709 DWP2 Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods 1 3
EDUC 6711 DZP2 Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 1 3
EDUC 6713 EBP2 Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health 1 3
Methods
EDUC 5302 AEP2 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 2 3
EDUC 6921 C323 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6922 C324 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6923 C325 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6924 C326 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6750 C342 Teacher Work Sample in Elementary Education 1 4
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 4
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 4
Total CUs: 37
PBELK8 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 122
Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Mathematics (5-9)
The Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program - Mathematics (5-9) is a competency-based program of study
that prepares students who have earned a baccalaureate degree to be licensed to teach mathematics in grades 5-9.
All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field
experience components. Students enter this program with a substantial background in mathematics and proceed
through study in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Mathematics Education, Pre-
Clinical Experiences and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5221 C142 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
EDUC 5303 AGP2 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 2
EDUC 6932 C327 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6933 C328 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6934 C329 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6935 C330 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 VCT2 Teacher Work Sample in Mathematics 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
Total CUs: 27
PBMA9 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 123
Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Mathematics (5-12)
The Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program- Mathematics (5-12) is a competency-based program of study
that prepares students who have earned a baccalaureate degree to be licensed to teach mathematics in grades 5-12.
All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in classroom field
experience components. Students enter this program with a substantial background in mathematics and proceed
through study in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Mathematics Education, Pre-
Clinical Experiences and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5221 C142 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
EDUC 5306 ASP2 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 2
EDUC 6932 C327 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6933 C328 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6934 C329 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6935 C330 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 VCT2 Teacher Work Sample in Mathematics 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
Total CUs: 27
PBMA12 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 124
Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Science (5-9)
The Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program, Science (5-9) is a competency-based program of study that
prepares students who have earned a baccalaureate degree to be licensed to teach science in grades 5-9. All work in
this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience
components. Students enter this program with a substantial background in science and proceed through study in the
Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Science Education, Pre-Clinical Experiences, and
Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5222 C143 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 2 1
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 1
EDUC 5304 AFP2 Preclinical Experiences in Science 2 2
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 2
EDUC 6942 C331 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
1 and 2
EDUC 6943 C332 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 3
and Midterm
EDUC 6944 C333 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
4 and 5
EDUC 6945 C334 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 3
and Final
EDUC 6903 VFT2 Teacher Work Sample in Science 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
Total CUs: 27
PBSC9 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 125
Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Science (5-12)
The Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Program, Science (5-12) is a competency-based program of study that
prepares students who have earned a baccalaureate degree to be licensed to teach science in grades 5-12. All work in
this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience
components. Students enter this program with a substantial background in science and proceed through study in the
Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Science Education, Pre-Clinical Experiences, and
Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5222 C143 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 2 1
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 1
EDUC 5307 AXP2 Preclinical Experiences in Science 2 2
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 2
EDUC 6942 C331 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
1 and 2
EDUC 6943 C332 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 3
and Midterm
EDUC 6944 C333 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
4 and 5
EDUC 6945 C334 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 3
and Final
EDUC 6903 VFT2 Teacher Work Sample in Science 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
Total CUs: 27
PBSC12 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 126
Post-baccalaureate Teacher Preparation, Social Science (5-12)
The Post-Baccalaureate in Teacher Preparation, Social Science (5-12) is a competency-based program of study that
prepares students who have earned a baccalaureate degree to be licensed to teach social science in grades 5-12. All
work in this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field
experience components. Students enter this program with a substantial background in social science and proceed
through study in the Foundations of Teaching, Teacher Education Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation,
Social Science Content (Grades 5-12), Pre-Clinical Experience and Demonstration Teaching.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 1
EDUC 5224 C144 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Social Science 2 1
EDUC 5305 AMP2 Preclinical Experiences in Social Science 2 2
SOSC 3010 SPT2 Social Science Pedagogy 2 2
EDUC 6961 C335 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6962 C336 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6963 C337 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6964 C338 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6900 C852 Teacher Performance Assessment in Social Science 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
Total CUs: 27
PBSS12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 127
Master of Arts in Teaching, Elementary Education (K-8)
The Master of Arts in Teaching (K-8) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students at the graduate
level both to be licensed to teach in grades K-8 and to develop significant skills in curriculum development, design, and
evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the demonstration teaching and in-classroom
field experience components. Students enter this program with a significant background in education and then proceed
through study in Foundations of Teaching, Elementary Education Methods, Instructional Planning and Presentation
and Research Fundamentals. The program includes a supervised teaching practicum in a real classroom and thus
prepares students for initial teacher licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
MATH 5010 C682 Mathematics for Elementary Educators 3 1
EDUC 5220 C141 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary 2 1
Education
EDUC 6999 C379 Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods 2 2
EDUC 6380 C380 Language Arts Instruction and Intervention 2 2
EDUC 6202 C381 Elementary Mathematics Methods 2 2
EDUC 6203 C382 Elementary Science Methods 2 2
EDUC 6709 DWP2 Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods 1 3
EDUC 6711 DZP2 Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods 1 3
EDUC 6713 EBP2 Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health 1 3
Methods
EDUC 5302 AEP2 Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education 2 3
EDUC 6921 C323 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6922 C324 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6923 C325 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6924 C326 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, 3 4
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6750 C342 Teacher Work Sample in Elementary Education 1 4
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 4
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 4
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 5
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 5
Total CUs: 41
MATELK8 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 128
Master of Arts in Teaching, English Education (5-12)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, English (5-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students at the
graduate level for licensure to teach English in grades 5-12, through the development of pedagogical skills in English
curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is completed online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter this program
with an English major or equivalent and build on the existing knowledge base of English through the Foundations of
Teaching, Teacher Education Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation, English Pedagogy (Grades 5-12),
Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 1
EDUC 5246 C395 Instructional Planning and Presentation in English 2 1
EDUC 5256 C397 Preclinical Experiences in English 2 2
EDUC 5347 C396 English Pedagogy 3 2
EDUC 5348 C398 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 1 3 2
and 2
EDUC 5349 C399 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 3 3 3
and Midterm
EDUC 5350 C400 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 4 3 3
and 5
EDUC 5351 C401 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 6 3 3
and Final
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 4
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 4
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 5252 C853 Teacher Performance Assessment in English 1 4
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 4
Total CUs: 32
MATENG12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 129
Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics (5-9)
The Master of Arts in Teaching-Mathematics (5-9) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students at
the graduate level both to be licensed to teach mathematics in grades 5-9 and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter this program
with a significant background in mathematics and then proceed through study in the Foundations of Teaching,
Instructional Planning and Presentation, Mathematics Education, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching,
and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5221 C142 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
EDUC 5303 AGP2 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 2
EDUC 6932 C327 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6933 C328 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6934 C329 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6935 C330 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 VCT2 Teacher Work Sample in Mathematics 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 4
Total CUs: 31
MATMA9 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 130
Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics (5-12)
The Master of Arts in Teaching- Mathematics (5-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students at
the graduate level both to be licensed to teach mathematics in grades 5-12 and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter this program
with a significant background in mathematics and then proceed through study in the Foundations of Teaching,
Instructional Planning and Presentation, Mathematics Education, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching
and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5221 C142 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
EDUC 5306 ASP2 Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 2
EDUC 6932 C327 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6933 C328 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6934 C329 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6935 C330 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, 3 3
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6902 VCT2 Teacher Work Sample in Mathematics 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 4
Total CUs: 31
MATMA12 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 131
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science (5-9)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Science (5-9) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students at the
graduate level both to be licensed to teach science in grades 5-9 and to develop significant skills in science curriculum
development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the Demonstration
Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter this program with a significant background in
science and then proceed through study in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and Presentation,
Science Education, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5222 C143 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 2 1
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 1
EDUC 5304 AFP2 Preclinical Experiences in Science 2 2
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 2
EDUC 6942 C331 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
1 and 2
EDUC 6943 C332 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 3
and Midterm
EDUC 6944 C333 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
4 and 5
EDUC 6945 C334 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 3
and Final
EDUC 6903 VFT2 Teacher Work Sample in Science 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 4
Total CUs: 31
MATSC9 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 132
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science (5-12)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Science (5-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students at the
graduate level both to be licensed to teach science in grades 5-12 and to develop significant skills in science
curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the exception of the
Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter this program with a significant
background in science and then proceed through study in the Foundations of Teaching, Instructional Planning and
Presentation, Science Education, Pre-Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching, and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5222 C143 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science 2 1
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 1
EDUC 5307 AXP2 Preclinical Experiences in Science 2 2
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 2
EDUC 6942 C331 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
1 and 2
EDUC 6943 C332 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 3 3
and Midterm
EDUC 6944 C333 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 3 3
4 and 5
EDUC 6945 C334 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 3 3
and Final
EDUC 6903 VFT2 Teacher Work Sample in Science 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 4
Total CUs: 31
MATSC12 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 133
Master of Arts in Teaching, Social Science (5-12)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Social Science (5-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares students
at the graduate level both to be licensed to teach social science in grades 5-12 and to develop significant skills in
social science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online with the
exception of the Demonstration Teaching and in-classroom field experience components. Students enter this program
with a significant background in social science and then proceed through study in the Foundations of Teaching,
Teacher Education Diversity, Instructional Planning and Presentation, Social Science Content (Grades 5-12), Pre-
Clinical Experiences, Demonstration Teaching and Research Fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5711 FTC5 Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration 4 1
EDUC 5310 C848 Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners 2 1
EDUC 5224 C144 Instructional Planning and Presentation in Social Science 2 1
EDUC 5305 AMP2 Preclinical Experiences in Social Science 2 2
SOSC 3010 SPT2 Social Science Pedagogy 2 2
EDUC 6961 C335 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observations 1 and 2
EDUC 6962 C336 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observation 3 and Midterm
EDUC 6963 C337 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observations 4 and 5
EDUC 6964 C338 Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, 3 3
Observation 6 and Final
EDUC 6900 C852 Teacher Performance Assessment in Social Science 1 3
EDUC 5255 C347 Professional Portfolio 1 3
EDUC 5253 C339 Cohort Seminar 1 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 4
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 4
Total CUs: 31
MATSS12 201708 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 134
Master of Science, Special Education
The Master of Science in Special Education is a competency-based program that enables students to earn a Master of
Science in Special Education degree online. The M.S. in Special Education includes content knowledge related to
teaching special education K-12 as well as research, instructional design, and performance improvement. The M.S. in
Special education program also includes two Capstone experiences: 1) a 240-hour in-class supervised teaching
practicum: MS SPED Teacher Work Sample Written Project/Practicum I and 2) the MS SPED Teacher Work Sample
Oral Defense/Practicum II which provide students with opportunities for practical application at advanced levels in
special education classrooms. The most important aspect of this program is that it provides an avenue for
professionals currently engaged in a teaching career, whose content and pedagogy backgrounds are significant, to
serve in our country's elementary, middle, and high schools by teaching in special education in grades K-12. In order
to matriculate into the M.S. Special Education degree, students must have a valid teaching certificate and be highly
qualified as defined by the "Highly Qualified Teachers" component of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SPED 6510 FCC2 Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal Issues, 3 1
Policies and Procedures
SPED 6520 FJC2 Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP 3 1
Development/Implementation
SPED 6530 EFV2 Behavioral Management and Intervention 3 1
SPED 6540 FLC2 Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and Culturally 2 2
Responsive Teaching
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 2
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 2
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6009 C540 MS SPED Teacher Work Sample 6 4
Total CUs: 31
MSSP 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 135
Master of Science, Educational Leadership
The Master of Science in Educational Leadership is a competency-based degree program that prepares students at
the graduate level to become licensed as school principals. The program's philosophy is based on that of the school
principal as the school's instructional team leader. Work in this degree program takes place in a case study format and
utilizes a case study school site or district. Students also complete a practicum working closely with a school
administrator in a practicum school site. Practicum activities take place at both the elementary (K-6) and secondary
(7-12) levels and occur during the concluding term of the program. All students complete a capstone project in which
they design and implement data-driven school improvement initiatives based on the results of their case studies and
practicum. The program is aligned to the ELCC 2011 standards.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 6728 TVT2 Governance, Finance, Law, and Leadership for Principals 6 1
EDUC 3248 LPT1 Performance Excellence Criteria for Educational Leaders 4 1
EDUC 3250 LST1 Strategic Planning for Educational Leaders 2 2
EDUC 3245 LFT1 Student, Stakeholder, and Market Focus for Educational 5 2
Leaders
EDUC 3246 LMT1 Measurement, Analysis, and Knowledge Management for 4 2
Educational Leaders
EDUC 3251 LWT1 Workforce Focus for Educational Leaders 4 3
EDUC 3247 LNT1 Process Management for Educational Leaders 3 3
EDUC 3244 LEC1 Comprehensive Educational Leadership Integration 2 3
EDUC 3249 LRT1 Practicum in Educational Leadership 7 4
EDUC 6906 CWEL Capstone Written Project in Educational Leadership 3 4
Total CUs: 40
MSEDL 201209 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 136
Master of Arts, English Language Learning (PreK-12)
The Master of Arts in English Language Learning (PreK-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings and to develop
significant skills in ELL curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes ELL Content and Methodology, Research Fundamentals, and Instructional Design. All students complete a
capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar 3 1
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 2
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 3
EDUC 6754 C360 Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning 1 4
Total CUs: 30
MAELLP12 201501 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 137
Master of Arts, Mathematics Education (K-6)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (K-6) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers both to teach mathematics in grades K - 6 and to develop significant skills in mathematics curriculum
development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online, and includes Mathematics Content and
Research Fundamentals. All students complete a Capstone Project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5210 AOA2 Number Sense and Functions 4 1
MATH 5220 AUA2 Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities 4 1
MATH 5230 AVA2 Geometry and Statistics 4 2
EDUC 6836 MFT2 Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense 2 2
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6029 C635 MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MAMEK6 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 138
Master of Arts, Mathematics Education (5-9)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (5-9) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in grades 5-9 and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, Mathematics Education and Research Fundamentals. All students complete a culminating
Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 1
MATH 5310 ROT2 Pre-Calculus 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 1
MATH 5030 EXP2 College Geometry 2 2
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 2
MATH 6710 CYV2 Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge 4 2
MATH 5410 QJT2 Calculus I 2 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 6027 C633 MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Work Sample 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MAME9 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 139
Master of Arts, Mathematics Education (5-12)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (5-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in grades 5-12 and to develop significant skills in
mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Middle School Mathematics Content, and Mathematics Education. All students complete a culminating Teacher Work
Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5310 ROT2 Pre-Calculus 2 1
MATH 5030 EXP2 College Geometry 2 1
MATH 5406 C363 Calculus I 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5420 CQC2 Calculus II 2 2
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 2
MATH 5520 TQC2 Probability and Statistics II 2 2
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 2
MATH 6330 CXV2 Mathematics: Content Knowledge 4 3
MATH 6410 SRT2 Calculus III and Analysis 2 3
MATH 6310 RKT2 Linear Algebra 2 3
MATH 6320 QDT2 Abstract Algebra 2 4
EDUC 6028 C634 MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Work Sample 6 4
Total CUs: 32
MAME12 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 140
Master of Arts, Science Education (5-9)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (5-9) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already licensed
teachers both to be licensed to teach science in grades 5-9 and to develop significant skills in science curriculum
development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes General Science Content,
Science Education, and a Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5 GNC2 Integrated Natural Sciences 3 1
CHEM 5108 TSC2 General Chemistry I 2 1
CHEM 5109 TSP2 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 1
CHEM 5208 TUC2 General Chemistry II 2 1
CHEM 5209 TUP2 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 2
BIO 5100 RJT2 Principles of Biology 3 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
GEOS 5100 QQT2 Earth and Space Science 3 2
PHYS 5100 RNT2 General Physics 3 3
SCIE 6410 DBV2 Middle School Science: Content Knowledge 4 3
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 3
EDUC 6022 C627 MA, Science Education (5-9) Teacher Work Sample 6 4
Total CUs: 32
MASE9 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 141
Master of Arts, Science Education (5-12, Chemistry)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (5-12 Chemistry) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach chemistry in grades 5-12 and to develop significant skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
General Science and Chemistry (Grades 5-12) Content, and Science Education. All students complete a culminating
Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
CHEM 5108 TSC2 General Chemistry I 2 1
CHEM 5109 TSP2 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 1
CHEM 5208 TUC2 General Chemistry II 2 1
CHEM 5209 TUP2 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 1
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 1
CHEM 5310 BVT2 Physical Chemistry 2 2
CHEM 5300 BWT2 Inorganic Chemistry 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
EDUC 5512 C267 Climate Change 3 2
CHEM 5250 AIT2 Organic Chemistry 2 3
SCIE 5500 GRT2 Biochemistry 2 3
CHEM 6410 DCV2 Chemistry: Content Knowledge 4 3
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 4
EDUC 6024 C630 MA, Science Education (5-12, Chemistry) Teacher Work 6 4
Sample
Total CUs: 33
MASECH12 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 142
Master of Arts, Science Education (5-12, Physics)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (5-12, Physics) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach physics in grades 5-12 and to develop significant skills in science
curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes General
Science and Physics (Grades 5-12) Content and Science Education. All students complete a culminating Teacher
Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5 GNC2 Integrated Natural Sciences 3 1
CHEM 5108 TSC2 General Chemistry I 2 1
CHEM 5109 TSP2 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 1
CHEM 5208 TUC2 General Chemistry II 2 1
CHEM 5209 TUP2 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 2
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 2
PHYS 5150 BYT2 Physics: Mechanics 2 2
PHYS 5310 BZT2 Physics: Waves and Optics 2 2
PHYS 5320 DPT2 Physics: Electricity and Magnetism 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 3
PHYS 5248 C739 Space, Time and Motion 3 3
PHYS 6410 DAV2 Physics: Content Knowledge 4 3
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 4
EDUC 6262 C764 MA, Science Education (5-12 Physics) Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
Total CUs: 34
MASEPH12 201603 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 143
Master of Arts, Science Education (5-12, Bio)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (5-12, Biological Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach biology in grades 5-12 and to develop significant skills
in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
General Science and Biology (Grades 5-12) Content and Science Education. All students complete a culminating
Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5 GNC2 Integrated Natural Sciences 3 1
CHEM 5108 TSC2 General Chemistry I 2 1
CHEM 5109 TSP2 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 1
BIO 5100 RJT2 Principles of Biology 3 1
CHEM 5208 TUC2 General Chemistry II 2 2
CHEM 5209 TUP2 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
BIO 5734 C758 Advanced Biology 3 2
BIO 5247 C737 Evolution 3 3
BIO 6410 CZV2 Biology: Content Knowledge 4 3
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 3
EDUC 6263 C765 MA, Science Education (5-12 Bio)Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
Total CUs: 32
MASEB12 201603 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 144
Master of Arts, Science Education (5-12, Geo)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (5-12, Geosciences) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach earth and space science in grades 5-12 and to develop
significant skills in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online
and includes General Science and Geosciences (Grades 5-12) Content and Science Education. All students complete
a culminating Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5 GNC2 Integrated Natural Sciences 3 1
MATH 5310 ROT2 Pre-Calculus 2 1
CHEM 5108 TSC2 General Chemistry I 2 1
CHEM 5109 TSP2 General Chemistry Laboratory I 1 1
CHEM 5208 TUC2 General Chemistry II 2 2
CHEM 5209 TUP2 General Chemistry Laboratory II 1 2
GEOS 5100 QQT2 Earth and Space Science 3 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
EDUC 5511 C266 The Ocean Systems 3 3
EDUC 5510 C265 Advanced Geosciences 3 3
GEOS 6410 DDV2 Earth Science: Content Knowledge 4 3
EDUC 5420 ORT2 Science Teaching and Learning 2 4
EDUC 6025 C631 MA, Science Education (5-12, Geo) Teacher Work Sample 6 4
Total CUs: 34
MASEG12 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 145
Master of Education, Instructional Design
The Master of Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares individuals to improve education and
training results by effectively using technology to support teaching, learning, and performance improvement
endeavors. The principal competencies of this program area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in instructional
design, technology integration, measurement and evaluation, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 1
EDUC 5271 JNT2 Instructional Design Analysis 2 1
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 1
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 1
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 2
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 2
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 2
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 2
EDUC 3252 MEC1 Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation 2 3
EDUC 6723 JRT2 Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation 2 3
EDUC 6724 JST2 Evaluation Process and Recommendation 2 3
EDUC 6722 JQT2 Issues in Measurement and Evaluation 2 3
EDUC 6030 C636 MED, Instructional Design Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MEDID 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 146
Master of Education, Learning and Technology
The Master of Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares individuals to improve education and
training results by effectively using technology to support teaching, learning, and performance improvement
endeavors. The principal competencies of this program area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in instructional
design, technology integration, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5270 IDC1 Foundations of Instructional Design 2 1
EDUC 5271 JNT2 Instructional Design Analysis 2 1
EDUC 5272 JOT2 Issues in Instructional Design 2 1
GRAD 5273 JPT2 Instructional Design Production 2 1
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 2
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 2
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 2
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 2
EDUC 6726 TDT1 Technology Design Portfolio 2 3
EDUC 6727 TET1 Issues in Technology Integration 2 3
EDUC 6725 TAT2 Technology Production 4 3
EDUC 6021 C626 MED, Learning and Technology Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MEDLT 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 147
Master of Science, Curriculum and Instruction
The Master of Science degree in Curriculum and Instruction is a competency-based program and represents a path for
K-12 educators and corporate trainers wishing to advance their knowledge and skills in the application of sound,
empirically-based principles of education to their instructional setting: curriculum content and pedagogy. Intended to be
practical, real-world, and application-based, the program revolves around four primary themes: Design, Evaluation,
Problem-solving, and Instructional Leadership. These four pillars are the foundations of a sound, empirically based
education that meet the needs of educational leaders in the 21st century. The principal competencies of this program
area focus on knowledge, skills, and abilities in curriculum, instruction, and research fundamentals.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5280 IYT2 Introduction to Curriculum Theory 2 1
EDUC 5281 IZT2 Learning Theories 2 1
EDUC 5282 JWT2 Instructional Theory 2 1
EDUC 5283 JXT2 Educational Psychology 2 1
EDUC 5284 JYT2 Curriculum Design 2 2
EDUC 5285 JZT2 Curriculum Evaluation 2 2
EDUC 5286 KAT2 Assessment for Student Learning 2 2
EDUC 5287 KBT2 Differentiated Instruction 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6011 C561 MS, Curriculum and Instruction Capstone 6 4
Total CUs: 30
MSCIN 201504 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 148
Endorsement Preparation Program, Educational Leadership
The Endorsement Preparation Program in Educational Leadership is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students at the graduate level to become licensed as school principals. The program's philosophy is based
on that of the school principal as the school's instructional team leader. Work in this endorsement program takes place
in a case study format and utilizes a case study school site or district. Students also complete a practicum working
closely with a school administrator in a practicum school site. Practicum activities take place at both the elementary
(K-6) and secondary (7-12) levels, and occur during the concluding term of the program. The program is aligned to the
ELCC 2011 standards.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 6728 TVT2 Governance, Finance, Law, and Leadership for Principals 6 1
EDUC 3248 LPT1 Performance Excellence Criteria for Educational Leaders 4 1
EDUC 3247 LNT1 Process Management for Educational Leaders 3 2
EDUC 3245 LFT1 Student, Stakeholder, and Market Focus for Educational 5 2
Leaders
EDUC 3246 LMT1 Measurement, Analysis, and Knowledge Management for 4 3
Educational Leaders
EDUC 3251 LWT1 Workforce Focus for Educational Leaders 4 3
EDUC 3250 LST1 Strategic Planning for Educational Leaders 2 4
EDUC 3244 LEC1 Comprehensive Educational Leadership Integration 2 4
EDUC 3249 LRT1 Practicum in Educational Leadership 7 4
Total CUs: 37
ENDEDL 201209 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 149
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (PreK-12)
The English Language Learning (ELL) Endorsement Preparation Program is a competency-based program that
prepares already licensed teachers to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings. All work in
this degree program is online and includes ELL content and methodology.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar 3 1
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 2
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 3
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
Total CUs: 25
ENDELL 201112 © Western Governors University 4/28/17 150
Courses
ABP1 - Introduction to Preclinical Experiences - Introduction to Preclinical Experiences engages students seeking a bachelor’s degree and initial
teacher licensure in utilizing video observations to reflect on ways they will interact with students and manage their classrooms. Concepts include
Classroom Environment and Management, Instructional Models and Strategies, Emotional Climate and Teacher Responsiveness, Standards and
School Law, and Teaching Diverse and Exceptional Learners. The course also guides students through the Field Experience and Demonstration
Teaching application processes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
ABV1 - Operating Systems - The 70-680 Microsoft Specialist exam tests the skills and knowledge necessary to implement and configure Windows 7
computers, devices, users, and associated network and security resources. After passing this exam, you will hold credit toward either the MCSA or
MCSE certifications.
AEP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education provides students the opportunity to
observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an
effective teacher. Students will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the
observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU
required basic skills exam, a completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AEP2 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary Education provides students the opportunity to
observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an
effective teacher. Students will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the
observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU
required basic skills exam, a completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AFP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required
to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed
resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AFP2 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required
to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed
resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AFT2 - Accreditation Audit - Accreditation Audit covers regulatory audits, resource assessment, quality improvement, patient care improvement,
organization plans, risk management, effective interaction, and compliance as evidenced during an accreditation audit.
AGP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students
will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be
required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a
completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo. Over the course of your observations, you will
• examine the interaction between instruction and learning,
• review the impact of culture on learning,
• reflect on teaching strategies and assessment practices,
• consider current classroom practices as they relate to the student experience,
• address the needs of exceptional learners, and
• analyze general and program-specific instructional methods based on student needs.
Once you have completed a majority of your coursework and your initial pre-clinical experiences, you will enter and observe a live classroom. This will
be an excellent opportunity for you to see real world examples of the principles you have learned. Theory often diverges from practice when it must be
applied in a real-world, dynamic situation. In this course, you will reflect on your previous coursework and look forward to the requirements still needed
for Demonstration Teaching and graduation.
AGP2 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students
will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be
required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a
completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
Over the course of your observations, you will
• examine the interaction between instruction and learning,
• review the impact of culture on learning,
• reflect on teaching strategies and assessment practices,
• consider current classroom practices as they relate to the student experience,
• address the needs of exceptional learners, and
• analyze general and program-specific instructional methods based on student needs.
Once you have completed a majority of your coursework and your initial pre-clinical experiences, you will enter and observe a live classroom. This will
be an excellent opportunity for you to see real-world examples of the principles you have learned. Theory often diverges from practice when it must be
applied in a real-world, dynamic situation. In this course, you will reflect on your previous coursework, and look forward to the requirements still
needed in preparation for Demonstration Teaching and graduation.
AIT2 - Organic Chemistry - Organic Chemistry focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize
and group organic compounds in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity based on common bonds found within an organic compound.
ALP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education - Preclinical Experiences in Elementary and Special Education provides
students the opportunity to observe and participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence
necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the
classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the
state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AMP2 - Preclinical Experiences in Social Science - Preclinical Experiences in Social Science provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher.
Students will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will
be required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a
completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 151
AMT2 - Service Line Development - Service Line Development will address how to critically assess the competitive marketplace as well as the
internal environment to establish a new line of business. Topics include needs assessment, international healthcare trends, service line management,
revenue analysis, costs and productivity, communication, negotiation, health policy, health legislation, and facilities management, which are variables
in the evaluation process.
AOA2 - Number Sense and Functions - Number Sense and Functions is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of
work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as
number sense, patterns and functions, integers and order of operations, fractions, decimals, and percentages.
ASA1 - Assessment Theory and Practice - Assessment Theory and Practice focuses on issues central to assessment in the ELL environment,
including high-stakes testing, standardized tests, placement and exit assessment, formative and summative assessments, and making adaptations in
assessments to meet the needs of ELL students.
ASC1 - Marketing Management Concepts - Marketing Management Concepts prepares students to learn core principles in marketing management.
Topics include a wide array of marketing management concepts such as the buyer decision process, segmenting markets, competitive advantage,
product mix management theory, price policy, distribution strategy, and sales management. This course is completed in conjunction with AST1.
ASP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students
will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be
required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a
completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo. Over the course of your observations, you will
• examine the interaction between instruction and learning,
• review the impact of culture on learning,
• reflect on teaching strategies and assessment practices,
• consider current classroom practices as they relate to the student experience,
• address the needs of exceptional learners, and
• analyze general and program-specific instructional methods based on student needs.
Once you have completed a majority of your coursework and your initial pre-clinical experiences, you will enter and observe a live classroom. This will
be an excellent opportunity for you to see real-world examples of the principles you have learned. Theory often diverges from practice when it must be
applied in a real-world, dynamic situation. In this course, you will reflect on your previous coursework, and look forward to the requirements still
needed in preparation for Demonstration Teaching and graduation.
ASP2 - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics - Preclinical Experiences in Mathematics provides students the opportunity to observe and
participate in a wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students
will reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be
required to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a
completed resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo. Over the course of your observations, you will
• examine the interaction between instruction and learning,
• review the impact of culture on learning,
• reflect on teaching strategies and assessment practices,
• consider current classroom practices as they relate to the student experience,
• address the needs of exceptional learners, and
• analyze general and program-specific instructional methods based on student needs.
Once you have completed a majority of your coursework and your initial pre-clinical experiences, you will enter and observe a live classroom. This will
be an excellent opportunity for you to see real-world examples of the principles you have learned. Theory often diverges from practice when it must be
applied in a real-world, dynamic situation. In this course, you will reflect on your previous coursework and also look forward to the other requirements
still needed in preparation for Demonstration Teaching and graduation.
AST1 - Marketing Management Tasks - Marketing Management Tasks is completed in conjunction with ASC1. Students apply concepts of marketing
management to specific activities designed to prepare students for real world scenarios. Topics include a wide array of marketing management
concepts such as the buyer decision process, segmenting markets, competitive advantage, product mix management theory, price policy, distribution
strategy, and sales management.
ATP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required
to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed
resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AUA2 - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities is a
performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an
original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as coordinate pairs and graphing, ratios and proportional reasoning, and equations and
inequalities.
AUP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required
to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed
resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AVA2 - Geometry and Statistics - Geometry and Statistics is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This
portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as geometry and
measurement, statistics and probability.
AVP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required
to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed
resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
AWP1 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required
to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed
resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 152
AXP2 - Preclinical Experiences in Science - Preclinical Experiences in Science provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a
wide range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will
reflect on and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required
to meet several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed
resume, philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
BVT1 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics,
reaction kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BVT2 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics,
reaction kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BWT1 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of Inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the
properties and behavior of any compound avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry:
the structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BWT2 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of Inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the
properties and behavior of any compound avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry:
the structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BYT1 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BYT2 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BZT1 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics. Students will
study basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light with even further applications to optical instruments. They will
also learn about thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
BZT2 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics.Students will
study basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light with even further applications to optical instruments. They will
also learn about thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
C100 - Introduction to Humanities - This introductory humanities course allows students to practice essential writing, communication, and critical
thinking skills necessary to engage in civic and professional interactions as mature, informed adults. Whether through studying literature, visual and
performing arts, or philosophy, all humanities courses stress the need to form reasoned, analytical, and articulate responses to cultural and creative
works. Studying a wide variety of creative works allows students to more effectively enter the global community with a broad and enlightened
perspective.
C104 - Elementary Social Studies Methods - Elementary Social Studies Methods helps students learn how to implement effective social studies
instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include social studies themes, promoting cultural diversity, integrated social studies across the
curriculum, social studies learning environments, assessing social studies understanding, differentiated instruction for social studies, technology for
social studies instruction, and standards-based social studies instruction.
C105 - Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods - Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods helps students learn how to implement
effective visual and performing arts instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include integrating arts across the curriculum, music education,
visual arts, dance and movement, dramatic arts, differentiated instruction for visual and performing arts, and promoting cultural diversity through visual
and performing arts instruction.
C107 - Anatomy and Physiology I - Anatomy and Physiology I examines the structures and functions of the human body. The course is designed to
provide students with a thorough understanding of human anatomy and physiology, including the interdependent operational relationships among
them. Students will use a dissection lab to study organ systems of the human body in their healthy state including the digestive, skeletal, sensory,
respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine and renal systems. By examining these organ
systems in a healthy state, healthcare professionals are more adept to recognize when a something is functioning abnormally, which is a key
component to providing effective care to patients. For nursing students this is the first of two anatomy and physiology courses within the program of
study. This course has no pre-requisites.
C108 - Elementary Science Methods - Elementary Science Methods helps students learn how to implement effective science instruction in the
elementary classroom. Topics include processes of science, science inquiry, science learning environments, instructional strategies for science,
differentiated instruction for science, assessing science understanding, technology for science instruction, standards based science instruction,
integrating science across curriculum, and science beyond the classroom.
C109 - Elementary Mathematics Methods - Elementary Mathematics Methods helps students learn how to implement effective math instruction in
the elementary classroom. Topics include differentiated math instruction, mathematical communication, mathematical tools for instruction, assessing
math understanding, integrating math across the curriculum, critical thinking development, standards based math instruction, and mathematical
models and representation.
C113 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics - Students will continue to build instructional planning skills with a focus on
selecting appropriate materials for diverse learners, selecting age and ability appropriate strategies for the content areas, promoting critical thinking,
and establishing both short and long term goals.
C121 - Survey of United States History - This course presents a broad and thematic survey of U.S. history from European colonization to the mid-
twentieth century. Students will explore how historical events and major themes in American history have affected a diverse population.
C128 - Advanced Professional Roles and Values - The Advanced Professional Roles and Values course bridges the undergraduate nurse to higher
level knowledge and accountability by examining roles of advanced professional practice. Current issues, professional and personal values, and
ethical issues are examined along with scholarship and advanced practice roles.
C132 - Elements of Effective Communication - Elements of Effective Communication introduces learners to elements of communication that are
valued in college and beyond. Materials are based on five principles: being aware of your communication with yourself and others; using and
interpreting verbal messages effectively; using and interpreting nonverbal messages effectively; listening and responding thoughtfully to others, and
adapting messages to others appropriately.
C133 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary and Special Education - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students
as they continue to build instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment,
engagement, integration of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform
instruction.
C141 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they
continue to build instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement,
integration of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C142 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Mathematics - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they continue to build
instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement, integration of
learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 153
C143 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they continue to build
instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement, integration of
learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C144 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Social Science - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they continue to
build instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement, integration
of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C155 - Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing Practice - In Pathopharmacological Foundations for Advanced Nursing
Practice, students will gain application skills by examining syndromes rather than looking at body systems independently. The course includes
pathophysiologies, the associated pharmacological treatments, and social and environmental impacts Pathopharmacological Foundations for
Advanced Nursing Practice is an integrated examination of five common and important disease processes:
• asthma
• heart failure
• obesity
• traumatic brain injury
• depression
These processes are relevant to advanced nursing practice because of their prevalence and impact on the healthcare system and the health of the
nation.
C157 - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience - The Essentials of Advanced Nursing Practice Field Experience course gives
you an opportunity to apply leadership knowledge to evaluate a healthcare facility and then recommend an organizational change to improve
population health. In this course you will integrate and apply your learning in a clinical experience working with a nurse leader. You will demonstrate
and document the following skills:
• lead change to improve quality health in populations
• advance a culture of excellence through lifelong learning
• build and lead collaborative interprofessional care teams
• navigate and integrate care services across the healthcare system
• design innovative nursing practices
• translate evidence into practice
C158 - Organizational Leadership and Interprofessional Team Development - This graduate-level course builds on baccalaureate-level leadership
knowledge to develop application skills in complex healthcare environments with diverse teams. Graduates will develop knowledge and competencies
in the following areas:
• leadership theory
• systems and complexity theory
• advanced communication
• building consensus
Knowledge, skills, and abilities related to creating cultures of safety and leading quality improvement are key parts of this course and of contemporary
leadership. Most importantly, students will develop and establish deep understanding of leadership roles within organizations, a central theme in the
course. Upon successful completion of this course, Students will demonstrate:
• critical decision making, critical analysis, and visionary thinking to lead and affect positive healthcare environments;
• the ability to build consensus and communicate a compelling vision that facilitates teamwork.
C159 - Policy, Politics, and Global Health Trends - Social, political, and economic factors influence policies that impact health outcomes in acute
care settings in communities, nationally and globally. Nurse leaders need to understand the determinants of health as well as how legal and regulatory
processes, healthcare finances, research, the role of professional organizations, and special interest groups/lobbyists impact health outcomes.This
course provides a framework for understanding the organization of healthcare delivery and financing systems in the U.S. and other nations. It
addresses how policies are made and factors that influence policies at local, national, and global levels that impact health/wellness and the nursing
profession. The roles of values, ethical theories, stakeholder interests, research, and recent legislation related to health policy and health outcomes
will be explored. The nurse leader will gain expertise in effecting change through active participation in influencing or developing policies that impact
health.
C160 - Facilitating Learning in the 21st Century - This course applies traditional learning theories in contemporary nursing practice, using 21st-
century educational paradigms. Students will examine and experiment with various educational ideas including: nursing curricula development,
facilitated learner development and diversity, assessment and evaluation strategies of learners, and evaluation of course and program outcomes.
C161 - Principles of Organizational Performance Management - This is the first specialization course in the nursing leadership and management
track. Building on core coursework in the master’s program, future nurse leaders examine the roles, responsibilities, and expectations of managers in
maximizing productivity and performance in healthcare organizations. They will explore leadership issues, including how to build and motivate a team,
organize staff development (including legal and ethical issues), and budget resources and time. This course encourages future nurse leaders to
examine administration from a systems perspective, relying on evidence to inform their practice.
C162 - Principles of Healthcare Business and Financial Management - Business and financial healthcare practices have a significant impact on
organizational outcomes. In this course, future nurse leaders examine scarce resources, financial principles, and tools for financial and business
management. They will also use financial budgeting and management practices and analyze the impact of regulations on the current healthcare
environment.
C163 - Strategic Leadership and Future Delivery Models - This graduate-level course emphasizes strategic leadership in healthcare, focusing on
the trends and directions in the industry and the future of healthcare delivery. Future nurse leaders will have the opportunity to explore how the
strategic planning processes incorporates healthcare trends and the evolution of healthcare systems, methods and concepts in strategic leadership,
and the ever-changing technology in healthcare.
C164 - Introduction to Physics - This course provides students with a comprehensive overview of the basic principles and unifying concepts of
physics. Students will integrate conceptual knowledge with practical and laboratory skills. The primary audience of this course are IT majors with focus
on application. The course contains interactives, reading materials, and laboratory application to help students develop a broad understanding of the
practical applications of scientific concepts. Instructional content is enhanced by e-interactives and laboratory activities that will give students hands on
knowledge and experience. Focus of materials are on why science is important to everyday life, practical application, and conceptual understanding.
The quantitative aspects of physics will be explored as they relate to modern problems and challeges of the everyday world. Asynchronous and cohort
experiences may be part of the learning experience in which community will support the educational process.
C165 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and Earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical and everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 154
C168 - Critical Thinking and Logic - Reasoning and Problem Solving helps students internalize a systematic process for exploring issues that takes
them beyond an unexamined point of view and encourages them to become more self-aware thinkers by applying principles of problem identification
and clarification, planning and information gathering, identifying assumptions and values, analysis and interpretation of information and data, reaching
well-founded conclusions, and identifying the role of critical thinking in the disciplines and professions.
C169 - Scripting and Programming - Applications - This course provides an introduction to programming. It covers data structures, algorithms, and
programming paradigms. It presents the concept of an object as well as the object-oriented paradigm and its importance. A survey of languages is
covered and the distinction between interpreted and compiled languages is introduced.
C170 - Data Management - Applications - This course covers conceptual data modeling and provides an introduction to MySQL. Students will learn
how to create simple to complex SELECT queries including subqueries and joins, and will also learn how to use SQL to update and delete data.
Topics covered in this course include exposure to MySQL; developing physical schemas; creating and modifying databases, tables, views, foreign
keys/primary keys (FKs/PKs), and indexes; populating tables; and developing simple Select-From-Where (SFW) queries to complex 3+ table join
queries.
C172 - Network and Security - Foundations - Network and Security - Foundations introduces students to the components of a computer network
and the concept and role of communication protocols. The course will cover widely used categorical classifications of networks (i.e. LAN, MAN, WAN,
PAN, and VPN) as well as network topologies, physical devices, and layered abstraction. The course will also introduce students to basic concepts of
security covering vulnerabilities of networks and mitigation techniques, security of physical media, and security policies and procedures.
C173 - Scripting and Programming - Foundations - This course provides an introduction to programming covering data structures, algorithms, and
programming paradigms. The course presents the student with the concept of an object as well as the object-oriented paradigm and its importance. A
survey of languages is covered and the distinction between interpreted and compiled languages is introduced.
C175 - Data Management - Foundations - This course introduces students to the concepts and terminology used in the field of data management.
They will be introduced to Structured Query Language (SQL) and will learn how to use Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation
Language (DML) commands to define, retrieve, and manipulate data. This course covers differentiations of data—structured vs. unstructured and
quasi-structured (relational, hierarchical, XML, textual, visual, etc); it also covers aspects of data management (quality, policy, storage methodologies).
Foundational concepts of data security are included.
C176 - Business of IT - Project Management - This course introduces the student to the project management & business analysis process within the
context of an IT project. Fundamental concepts of project management will be covered including all phase of project management during a system life
cycle including business analysis, requirements capturing, issue tracking, and release planning. Additional topics to include: development
environments (dev, integration, QA, production), help desk and support, IT planning for business continuity. This course prepares students for the
following certification exam: CompTIA Project+.
C178 - Network and Security - Applications - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Security+.
C179 - Business of IT - Applications - This course introduces IT students to information systems (IS). The course includes important topics related
to management of information systems (MIS), such as system development, and business continuity. The course also provides an overview of
management tools and issue tracking systems.
C180 - Introduction to Psychology - In this course, students will develop an understanding of psychology and how it helps them better understand
others and themselves. Students will learn general theories about psychological development, the structure of the brain, and how psychologists study
behavior. They will gain an understanding of both normal and disordered psychological behaviors, as well as general applications of the science of
psychology in society (such as personality typing and counseling).
C181 - Survey of United States Constitution and Government - In Survey of United States Constitution and Government, you will examine the
structure, institutions and principles of the American political system. The foundation of the United States government is the U.S. Constitution, and this
course will introduce the concepts of (a) separation of powers, (b) checks and balances, (c) civil liberties and civil rights, and (d) federalism and
republicanism. By completing this course, you will have proven competency in the structures of government, your own role in the policy-making
process, and the ways in which the Constitution and government has changed over time.
C182 - Introduction to IT - This course introduces students to information technology as a discipline and the various roles and functions of the IT
department as business support. Students are presented with various IT disciplines including systems and services, network and security, scripting
and programming, data management, and business of IT, with a survey of technologies in every area and how they relate to each other and to the
business.
C185 - Network Policies and Services Management - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: MCSA: Installing and
Configuring Windows Server.
C186 - Server Administration - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: MCSA: Administering Windows Server.
C187 - Network Reliability and Fault Tolerance - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: MCSA: Configuring Advanced
Windows Server.
C188 - Software Engineering - This course introduces the concepts of software engineering to IT core graduates. It is a standalone course that is
critical to the IT program. It emphasizes the need for a disciplined approach to software engineering by providing an overview of software and software
engineering processes and why they are challenging. A generic process framework is covered to provide the groundwork for formal process models.
Prescriptive process models (e.g., Waterfall Model) and Agile Development is included. An introduction to the elements/phases of software
engineering is introduced which includes Requirements Engineering (including UML, Use Cases), Design Concepts, Software Quality and Software
Testing, and Project Management.
C189 - Data Structures - Students will learn the fundamentals of dynamic data structures, such as bags, lists, stacks, queues, trees, hash tables, and
their associated algorithms, using object-oriented design and abstract data types as a design paradigm. The course emphasizes problem solving and
techniques applied to the design of efficient, maintainable software applications. Students will implement simple applications using the techniques
learned.
C190 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological
research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment.
Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment
to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C191 - Operating Systems for Programmers - This course covers operating systems from the perspective of a programmer including the placement
of the operating system in the layered application development model. Primarily OSs provide Memory Management, Task Scheduling, and CPU
allocation. Secondarily, OSs provide tools for file storage/access, permission control, event handling, network access, and cross-process interaction.
OSs also provide tools for debugging problems within a single process or within groups of programs.
C192 - Data Management for Programmers - This course introduces storage of various kinds and formats of data. Students will use standard SQL to
demonstrate query capabilities provided by database management systems. The course will further cover data-related topics: data presentation,
security (access and encryption), transaction management, and administration (backup, disaster recovery, and performance tuning). This course will
address advanced topics such as data warehousing, data mining and distributed databases.
C193 - Client-Server Application Development - This course introduces students to client/server application programming classes, structures, and
concepts. The course covers networking and client/server, streams, threads, URLs, URIs, HTTP, and socket programming concepts.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 155
C195 - Software II - Advanced Java Concepts - Software II – Advanced Java Concepts refines object-oriented programming expertise and builds
database and file server application development skills. You will learn about and put into action lambda expressions, collections, input/output,
advanced error handling, and the newest features of Java 8 to develop software that meets business requirements. This course requires intermediate
expertise in object-oriented programming and the Java language.
C196 - Mobile Application Development - This course introduces students to programming for mobile devices using a Software Development Kit
(SDK). Students with previous knowledge of programming will learn how to install and utilize a SDK, build a basic mobile application, build a mobile
applications using a graphical user interface(GUI), adapt applications to different mobile devices, save data, execute and debug mobile applications
using emulators, and deploy a mobile application.
C200 - Managing Organizations and Leading People - This course covers principles of effective management and leadership that maximize
organizational performance. The following topics are included: the role and functions of a manager, analysis of personal leadership styles, approaches
to self-awareness and self-assessment, and application of foundational leadership and management skills.
C201 - Business Acumen - This course introduces you to the operation of the business enterprise and the role of management in directing its
activities. You will examine the roles of management in the context of business functions such as marketing, operations, accounting, finance, and
others.
C202 - Managing Human Capital - This course focuses on strategies and tools that managers use to maximize employee contribution and create
organizational excellence. You will learn talent management strategies to motivate and develop employees as well as best practices to manage
performance for added value.
C203 - Becoming an Effective Leader - This course explores major theories and approaches to leadership, leadership style evaluation, and personal
leadership development while focusing on motivation, development, and achievement of others. You will learn how to influence followers, manage
organizational culture, and enhance your effectiveness as a leader.
C204 - Management Communication - This course prepares you for the communication challenges in organizations. Topics examined include:
theories and strategies of communication, persuasion, conflict management and ethics that enhance communication to various audiences.
C205 - Leading Teams - This course helps you establish team objectives, align the team purpose with organizational goals, build credibility and trust,
and develop the talents of individuals to enhance team performance.
C206 - Ethical Leadership - This course examines the ethical issues and dilemmas managers face. This course provides a framework for analysis of
management-related ethical issues and decision-making action required for satisfactory resolution of these issues.
C207 - Data-Driven Decision Making - This course presents critical problem-solving methodologies, including field research and data collection
methods that enhance organizational performance. Topics include quantitative analysis, statistical and quality tools. You will improve your ability to
use data to make informed decisions.
C208 - Change Management and Innovation - This course provides an overview of change theories and innovation practices. This course will
emphasize the role of leadership in influencing and managing change in response to challenges and opportunities facing organizations.
C209 - Strategic Management - This course focuses on models and practices of strategic management including developing and implementing both
short and long term strategy and evaluating performance to achieve strategic goals and objectives.
C210 - Management and Leadership Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MSML curriculum and requires you to synthesize
core knowledge from across the degree program and apply research skills in order to improve an organization. You will be asked to work with a real-
world organization to address a management or leadership challenge.
C211 - Global Economics for Managers - This course examines how economic tools, techniques, and indicators can be used for solving
organizational problems related to competitiveness, productivity, and growth. You will explore the management implications of a variety of economic
concepts and effective strategies to make decisions within a global context.
C212 - Marketing - This course will focus on the marketing function and its impact on the overall success of an organization. Topics include consumer
behavior, marketing theories and strategies, product positioning, the competitive environment, and effectiveness of the marketing function. A key
element of the course will include the relationship of the “marketing mix” to strategic planning.
C213 - Accounting for Decision Makers - This course provides you with the accounting knowledge and skills to assess and manage a business.
Topics include the accounting cycle, financial statements, taxes, and budgeting. You will improve your ability to understand reports and use
accounting information to plan and make sound business decisions.
C214 - Financial Management - This course covers practical approaches to analysis and decision making in the administration of corporate funds,
including capital budgeting, working capital management, and cost of capital. Topics include financial planning, management of working capital,
analysis of investment opportunities, sources of long-term financing, government regulations, and global influences. You will improve your ability to
interpret financial statements and manage corporate finances.
C215 - Operations Management - This course focuses on the strategic importance of operations management to overall performance. This course
also emphasizes principles of supply chain management relevant to a variety of business operations ranging from manufacturing goods to retail
services. You will examine the various planning, control, and decision-making tools and techniques of the operations function.
C216 - MBA Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MBA curriculum and covers all previous assessment topics. You will work
with a real-world organization to develop a solution to a business problem. In addition, you will work in teams of three or four students to simulate
running a business. One unique aspect of the simulation is that there are scheduled dates each week for simulation decisions. Since all teams are
required to meet the deadlines and work at the same pace this aspect of the assessment cannot be accelerated.
C217 - Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan - This course introduces students to human development across the lifespan. This
will include an introductory survey of cognitive, psychological, and physical growth. Students will gain an understanding in regards to the emergence of
personality, identity, gender and sexuality, social relationships, emotion, language, and moral development through life. This will include milestones
such as education, achievement, work, dying, and death.
C218 - MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MBA, IT Management curriculum
and focuses on strategic management while allowing for the synthesis of previous assessment topics. You will work in teams of three or four students
to simulate running a business. One unique aspect of the simulation is that there are scheduled dates each week for simulation decisions. Since all
teams are required to meet the deadlines and work at the same pace this aspect of the assessment cannot be accelerated.
C219 - MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MBA, Healthcare Management curriculum and
focuses on strategic management while allowing for the synthesis of previous assessment topics. You will work in teams of three or four students to
simulate running a business. One unique aspect of the simulation is that there are scheduled dates each week for simulation decisions. Since all
teams are required to meet the deadlines and work at the same pace this aspect of the assessment cannot be accelerated.
C224 - Research Foundations - The Research Foundations course focuses on the essential concepts in educational research, including quantitative,
qualitative, mixed, and action research; measurement and assessment; and strategies for obtaining warranted research results.
C225 - Research Questions and Literature Review - The Research Questions and Literature Reviews course focuses on how to conduct a thorough
literature review that addresses and identifies important educational research topics, problems, and questions, and helps determine the appropriate
kind of research and data needed to answer one's research questions and hypotheses.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 156
C226 - Research Design and Analysis - The Research Design and Analysis course focuses on applying strategies for effective design of empirical
research studies. Particular emphasis is placed on selecting or constructing the design that will provide the most valid results, analyzing the kind of
data that would be obtained, and making defensible interpretations and drawing appropriate conclusions based on the data.
C227 - Research Proposals - Research Proposals focuses on planning and writing a well-organized and complete research proposal. The
relationship of the sections in a research proposal to the sections in a research report will be highlighted.
C228 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing will assist students in becoming
familiar with foundational theories and models of health promotion applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will develop an
understanding of how policies and resources influence the health of populations. Focus is concentrated on learning the importance of a community
assessment to improve or resolve a community health issue. Students will be introduced to the relationships between cultures and communities and
the steps necessary to create community collaboration with the goal to improve or resolve community health issues in a variety of settings. Students
will gain a greater understanding of health systems in the United States, global health issues, quality-of-life issues, cultural influences, community
collaboration, and emergency preparedness.
C229 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Field Experience - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing, Field
Experience will introduce and familiarize students with clinical aspects of health promotion and disease prevention in the community health nursing
environment. Students will practice skills based on clinical priorities, methodology, and resources that positively influence the health of populations by
assessing a primary prevention topic in the community. Students will demonstrate critical thinking skills by applying principals of community health
nursing in a variety of community settings aligning with the selected primary prevention topic. As part of this process, students will be required to
complete a minimum of 90 practice hours in order to meet the requirements of the course. Practice hours include direct and indirect hours of activity
engaged with the community or population chosen as your focus. Students will describe the completed Field Experience in a written assessment that
will also outline recommendations to improve the community health concern using the nursing process. Students will develop and recommend health
promotion and disease prevention strategies for population groups.
C230 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing Clinical - This course will assist students to become familiar with clinical aspects of
health promotion and disease prevention, applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will practice skills based on clinical
priorities, methodology, and resources that positively influence the health of populations. Students will demonstrate critical thinking skills by applying
principals of community health nursing in a varity of settings. Students will design, implement and evaluate a project in community health. Students
will develop health promotion and disease prevention strategies for population groups.
C232 - Introduction to Human Resource Management - The course provides an introduction to the management of human resources, the function
within an organization that focuses on recruitment, management, and direction for the people who work in the organization. Students will be introduced
to HR topics such as strategic workforce planning and employment; compensation and benefits; training and development; employee and labor
relations; occupational health, safety and security.
C233 - Employment Law - This course reviews the legal and regulatory framework surrounding employment, including recruitment, termination, and
discrimination law. The course topics include employment-at-will, EEO, ADA, OSHA, and other laws affecting the workplace. Students will learn to
analyze current trends and issues in employment law and apply this knowledge to effectively manage risk in the employment relationship.
C234 - Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection - This course focuses on building a highly skilled workforce by using effective strategies
and tactics for recruiting, selecting, hiring, and retaining employees.
C235 - Training and Development - This course focuses on the development of human capital (i.e., growing talent) by applying effective learning
theories and practices for training and developing employees. Throughout this course, you will develop essential skills for improving and empowering
organizations through high-caliber training and development processes.
C236 - Compensation and Benefits - This course develops competence in understanding, designing, and implementing compensation and benefit
systems in an organization. It uses a Total Rewards perspective to integrate the tangible rewards (e.g., salary, bonuses, etc.) with employee benefits
(e.g., health insurance, retirement plan, etc.) and intangible rewards (e.g., location, work environment, etc.) so that students can use all forms of
rewards fairly and effectively to enable job satisfaction and organizational performance.
C237 - Taxation I - This course focuses on the taxation of individuals. It provides an overview of income taxes of both individuals and business
entities in order to enhance awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure and analyze the effect of various tax options. The
course will introduce taxation of sole proprietorships. Students will learn principles of individual taxation and how to develop effective personal tax
strategies for individuals. Students will also be introduced to tax research of complex taxation issues.
C238 - Taxation II - Welcome to Taxation II! This course focuses on the taxation of business entities, including corporations, partnerships, and LLCs.
Important taxation concepts and skills discussed in this course include tax reporting, planning, and research skills applicable to a variety of business
contexts. The activities you will complete for this course emphasize the role of taxes in business decisions and business strategy.
C239 - Advanced Tax Concepts - This course is designed to enhance your awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure
and analyze the effect of various tax options. This course provides an overview of income taxes on individuals, corporations, associations,
reorganizations, and corporate distributions. This course emphasizes the role of taxes in business decisions and business strategy.
C240 - Auditing - This course will walk you through the auditing process, including planning, conducting, documenting, and reporting an audit. You
will also learn the roles and professional standards of public accountants. This course is designed to help you study for the CPA exam and develop
essential skills for real-world experience.
C241 - Business Law for Accountants - Welcome to Business Law for Accountants! While you may have had exposure to other law or even
business law courses, this course focuses on those areas of the law that traditionally impact accounting-related and business transaction-related
decision functions. The course represents the legal and accounting concepts governing the conduct of business in the United States. It will cover laws
and regulations relevant to business operations.
C242 - Accounting Information Systems - Welcome to Accounting Information Systems! This course introduces a variety of accounting information
systems and internal controls necessary for effective systems. Students will learn how to document and evaluate the process flows of accounting
information systems, evaluate internal controls within accounting systems, and use QuickBooks Online.
C243 - Advanced Financial Accounting - This course builds upon your accounting knowledge by focusing on advanced financial accounting topics
such as consolidations, partnership accounting, and international accounting.
C244 - Advanced Auditing - This course introduces the basic concepts, standards, procedures, and practices of auditing, the changing role of the
independent auditor, professional conduct and ethics, auditor's reporting responsibilities, risk assessment, internal control, evidential matter, and
management fraud. This course is designed to help you examine how the role of internal and external auditing can best be performed through
studying cases of audit activities.
C245 - Accounting Research - The Accounting Research course is an upper level course that builds research application skills through identification
of accounting issues and researching concepts related to public accounting firms, businesses, and regulating authorities. This course helps students
develop analytical and research capabilities and apply the technical knowledge of accounting theory and principles to solve complex accounting
problems.
C246 - Fundamentals of Interconnecting Network Devices - This course prepares students for the Cisco CCENT certification exam,
Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices Part I (ICND1). This is also the first of two exams that lead to Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA)
certification.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 157
C247 - Interconnecting Network Devices - This course prepares students for the second Cisco CCNA certification exam, Interconnecting Cisco
Networking Devices Part 2 (ICND2).
C248 - Intermediate Accounting I - This is the first of two courses encompassing more advanced accounting concepts. It will offer a more
comprehensive treatment of concepts learned in previous accounting courses. It will cover accounting standards, the conceptual accounting
framework, preparation of selected financial statements, time value of money, receivables, fixed assets, intangible assets, and both long- and short-
term liabilities.
C249 - Intermediate Accounting II - This is the second of two intermediate accounting courses. This course provides a more comprehensive
treatment of concepts learned in Fundamentals of Accounting. This course will cover stockholders’ equity, dilutive securities, investments, revenue
recognition, accounting for income taxes, pensions and post-retirement benefits, leases, financial disclosures, and the preparation of the statement of
cash flows.
C250 - Cost and Managerial Accounting - The Cost and Managerial Accounting course will cover managerial accounting as part of the information
managers’ use for planning and controlling operations. It prepares students to consider cost behavior and employ various cost methods. Job-order
costing, process costing, and activity-based costing methods will be covered, along with cost-benefit analysis, standard costing, variance analysis, and
cost reporting.
C251 - Accounting Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the accounting curriculum and requires students to synthesize core
knowledge from across the degree program and apply accounting skills to benefit an organization. Students will be asked to work with case studies to
address an accounting challenge.
C252 - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting - This course is designed to be an introduction to the theory and practice of accounting in
governmental and nonprofit entities. The course includes a thorough examination of the process of analyzing and recording transactions by
governmental and nonprofit organization and their preparation of financial statements in accordance with Financial Accounting Board (FASB) and
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standards. This course includes accounting for governmental and nonprofit entities (local, state,
and federal) and voluntary organizations.
C253 - Advanced Managerial Accounting - This course introduces the complexity and functionality of managerial accounting systems within an
organization. It covers the topics of product costing (including Activity Based Costing), decision making (including capital budgeting), profitability
analysis, budgeting, performance evaluation, and reporting related to managerial decision-making. This course provides the opportunity for a detailed
study of how managerial accounting information supports the operational and strategic needs of an organization and how managers use accounting
information for decision-making, planning and controlling activities within organizations.
C254 - Fraud and Forensic Accounting - This course provides a framework for detecting and preventing financial statement fraud. Topics include
the profession’s focus and legislation of fraud, revenue- and inventory-related fraud, and liability, asset, and inadequate disclosure fraud.
C255 - Introduction to Geography - This course will discuss geographic concepts, places and regions, physical and human systems and the
environment.
C257 - Data Analytics and Information Governance - Welcome to the Data Analytics and Information Governance course. The first health
information managers were physicians keeping records of patients' care. These records ultimately found their way to one centralized location,
becoming medical records departments: the repositories for all information on patient encounters. Today's technologies moved health records into
another era in which health information can be accessed anywhere, anytime. Health information is shared among hundreds of people and
administered in a coordinated manner across the continuum of care including:
· hospitals
· outpatient facilities
· long-term care and nursing homes
· home healthcare
· hospice
· dental offices
· behavioral health
Health informatics professionals manage the flow of data and information to be used in all areas within the organization and outward to third party
payers for legal purposes, or into regional health information exchange networks.
C260 - Classification Systems - Classification Systems provides a comprehensive approach to learning about two specific coding systems: the
International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision, and Clinical Modification (ICD-10-CM), and Current Procedural Terminology (CPT). Coding is
used in health documentation, for reimbursement purposes, and in compliance with federal regulations and guidelines. This course also includes
comprehensive information in ICD-10-CM, ICD-10 Procedure Coding System and the CPT/HCPCS Coding System. Health Informatics Professionals
will need to be adept at managing the coding and classification function within the Electronic Health Record environment and in the Audit sector to
maintain compliance within their organization.
C262 - Advanced Geosciences - Advanced Geosciences explores the formation and evolution of the solar system and the universe. Focusing on
the Earth’s systems and subsystems, students analyze how the Earth’s atmosphere has evolved as a result of biological and geological processes.
This course also examines contributions made by astronomers that validate theories and facts about the solar system and the universe. Course
Prerequisite: Earth & Space Science.
C263 - The Ocean Systems - In this course, learners investigate the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere,
biosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include: origins of Earth’s oceans and the early history of life; physical characteristics
and geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water, and how ocean surface currents and
deep circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the effects of
human activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C264 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change. Students will learn how the climate system works; what factors cause
climate to change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models,
observations and theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course
explores evidence for changes in ocean temperature, sea level and acidity due to global warming. Students will learn how climate change today is
different from past climate cycles and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course
looks at the connection between human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic and
environmental consequences of climate change.
C265 - Advanced Geosciences - Advanced Geosciences explores the formation and evolution of the solar system and the universe. Focusing on
the Earth’s systems and subsystems, students analyze how the Earth’s atmosphere has evolved as a result of biological and geological processes.
This course also examines contributions made by astronomers that validate theories and facts about the solar system and the universe. Course
Prerequisite: Earth & Space Science.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 158
C266 - The Ocean Systems - In this course, learners investigate the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere,
biosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include: origins of Earth’s oceans and the early history of life; physical characteristics
and geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water, and how ocean surface currents and
deep circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the effects of
human activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C267 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change. Students will learn how the climate system works; what factors cause
climate to change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models,
observations and theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course
explores evidence for changes in ocean temperature, sea level and acidity due to global warming. Students will learn how climate change today is
different from past climate cycles and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course
looks at the connection between human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic and
environmental consequences of climate change.
C268 - Spreadsheets - The Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to analyze business problems. Students
will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business/accounting applications (e.g., using essential spreadsheet
functions, formulas, charts, etc.)
C269 - Children's Literature - This course is an introduction to and exploration of children’s literature. Students will consider and analyze children’s
literature as a lens through which to view the world. Students will experience multiple genres, historical perspectives, cultural representations and
current applications to the field of children’s literature.
C272 - Foundational Perspectives of Education - This course provides an introduction to the historical, legal, and philosophical foundations of
education. Current educational trends, reform movements, major federal and state laws, legal and ethical responsibilities, and an overview of
standards-based curriculum are the focus of the course. The course of study presents a discussion of changes and challenges in contemporary
education. It covers the diversity found in American schools, introduces emerging educational technology trends, and provides an overview of
contemporary topics in education.
C273 - Introduction to Sociology - This course teaches students to think like sociologists, in other words, to see and understand the hidden rules, or
norms, by which people live, and how they free or restrain behavior. Students will learn about socializing institutions, such as schools and families, as
well as workplace organizations and governments. Participants will also learn how people deviate from the rules by challenging norms, and how such
behavior may result in social change, either on a large scale or within small groups.
C277 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of
operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets
of real numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, trees and networks, and permutation and combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C278 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include: real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C279 - Pre-Calculus - Pre-Calculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex numbers, systems of equations,
vectors and matrices, sequence and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include degrees; radians
and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming trigonometric functions and their inverses; solving
trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar approaches to complex numbers; DeMoivre's
Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations; systems of inequalities; and arithmetic and
geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
C280 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data. Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this
course.
C281 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply geometry to model and solve real-life problems, to
do formal axiomatic proofs in geometry, and to use dynamic technology to explore geometry. Topics include axiomatic systems and analytic proof;
non-Euclidean geometries; construction, analytic, and synthetic methods for investigating and proving properties and relationships of two- and three-
dimensional objects; geometric transformations, tessellations, and using inductive reasoning; concrete models; and dynamic technology to conduct
geometric investigations. College Algebra and Pre-Calculus are prerequisites for this course.
C282 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use
differential calculus of one variable and appropriate technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains
and ranges; limits, continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and
sum rules applied to polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Candidates should have completed a course in
Pre-Calculus before engaging in this course.
C283 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in relation to the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills
necessary to apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include
antiderivatives; indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; definite integrals; acceleration,
velocity, position, and initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration;
improper integration; area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations;
direction fields; growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C284 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help you develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
become a prospective and practicing educator. You will be able to use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the learning of
mathematics. This course focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and instructional planning, with methods based on
research and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an
effective secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C285 - Mathematics History and Technology - Mathematics History and Technology introduces a variety of technological tools for doing
mathematics, and you will develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. You will come to understand that
mathematics is a very human subject that comes from the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change, as well as the micro-level actions of
individuals with personal, professional, and philosophical motivations. Most importantly, you will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and
historical information to create an enriching student-centered mathematical learning environment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 159
C286 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Middle School Content Knowledge is designed to help students refine and
integrate the mathematics content knowledge and skills necessary to become a successful middle school mathematics teacher. A high level of
mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College
Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and Pre-Calculus.
C287 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help students refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become a successful secondary mathematics teacher. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and
Pre-Calculus.
C288 - General Chemistry I - Chemistry is the study of matter. Everything you see and many of the things you don’t see are made up of atoms. By
understanding these atoms and their interactions, chemists have been able to cure disease, travel to the moon, and feed a growing world. By
understanding chemistry, you will find your own world expanded. You will find boiling water interesting and the back of the shampoo bottle fascinating.
The National Science Teachers Association (NSTA) has published principles and standards that address important chemistry topics that should be
covered through the K-12 curriculum. Many states have followed the NSTA’s lead and are increasingly requiring that these concepts be taught to the
students throughout the course of their science education. A firm grasp of the concepts covered in this course will allow you to confidently teach this
material when you enter the classroom.
C289 - General Chemistry II - Chemistry is the study of matter. Everything you see and many of the things you don’t see are made up of atoms. By
understanding these atoms and their interactions. chemists have been able to cure disease, travel to the moon, and feed a growing world. By
understanding chemistry, you will find your own world expanded. You will find boiling water interesting and the back of the shampoo bottle
fascinating.The National Science Teachers Association (NSTA) has published principles and standards that address important chemistry topics that
should be covered through the K-12 curriculum. Many states have followed the NSTA’s lead and are increasingly requiring that these concepts be
taught to the students throughout the course of their science education. A firm grasp of the concepts covered in this course will allow you to
confidently teach this material when you enter the classroom.
C292 - Science Teaching and Learning - This course focuses on how to teach science and on preparing preservice science educators to teach
science in a way that is accurate, current and engaging. Topics include models for teaching science through inquiry, evaluation of alignment to
standards, effective use of learning communities, formative assessment strategies, and safety responsibilities.
C293 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle-level science teacher is expected to
know and understand. Topics include scientific methodologies, history of science, basic science principles, physical sciences, life sciences, Earth and
space sciences, and the role of science and technology and their impact on society.
C294 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student’s conceptual understanding of a broad range of Biology
topics. High School Biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. For example, when studying hormones created
by endocrine glands traveling through the circulatory system to maintain homeostasis – a student is connecting many Biology topics. This course
starts with macromolecules that make up cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist.
Connections are then made between genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ
systems and their role in maintaining homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and humans effects on the environment.
C295 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - This course covers the following main topics:
Math skills review
Matter and energy
Nomenclature
Chemical reactions
Solutions
Nature of science
Laboratory procedures
C296 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary Earth Science teachers is
expected to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of Earth and Space Sciences, tectonics and internal Earth processes,
Earth materials and surface processes, history of the Earth and its Life-Forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphhere, and astronomy.
C297 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include mechanics, electricity and magnetism, optics and waves, heat and thermodynamics, modern
physics, atomic and nuclear structure, the history and nature of science, science technology, and social perspectives.
C299 - Designing Customized Security - The course provides an introduction to the core security concepts and skills needed for the installation,
monitoring, and troubleshooting of network security features to maintain the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of data and devices. Successfully
completing this course will certify these skills. You will also develop competency in the technologies that Cisco uses in its security infrastructure.
Recommended Experience: You should possess a current Cisco Certified Network Administrator in Routing and Switching certification. This course
prepares students for the following certification exam: Cisco CCNA Security.
C301 - Translational Research for Practice and Populations - This graduate-level course builds on your baccalaureate-level statistical knowledge
to help you develop skills in analyzing, interpreting, and translating research into nursing practice using principles of patient-centered care and
applications to individuals and populations
C304 - Professional Roles and Values - This course explores the unique role nurses play in healthcare, beginning with the history and evolution of
the nursing profession. The responsibilities and accountability of professional nurses are covered, including cultural competency, advocacy for patient
rights, and the legal and ethical issues related to supervision and delegation. Professional conduct, leadership, the public image of nursing, the work
environment, and issues of social justice are also addressed.
C306 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of
operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets
of real numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, trees and networks, and permutation and combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C307 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C308 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C309 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 160
C310 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C311 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C312 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C313 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C314 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary and Special Education, Obs 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary and Special Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C315 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C316 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C317 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C318 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C319 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C320 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C321 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C322 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C323 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C324 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C325 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C326 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Elementary Education, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in
Elementary Education involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop
comprehensive performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C327 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C328 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C329 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C330 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Mathematics
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C331 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C332 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C333 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C334 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Science involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 161
C335 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C336 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social
Science involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive
performance data about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C337 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C338 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in Social Science
involves a series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data
about the teacher candidate’s skills.
C339 - Cohort Seminar - Cohort Seminar provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during their demonstration teaching period by
providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates their demonstration of competence in
becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom, exploring community resources, building
collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C340 - Cohort Seminar in Special Education - Cohort Seminar in Special Education provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during
their demonstration teaching period by providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates
their demonstration of competence in becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom,
exploring community resources, building collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C341 - Cohort Seminar - Cohort Seminar provides mentoring and supports teacher candidates during their demonstration teaching period by
providing weekly collaboration and instruction related to the demonstration teaching experience. It facilitates their demonstration of competence in
becoming reflective practitioners, adhering to ethical standards, practicing inclusion in a diverse classroom, exploring community resources, building
collegial and collaborative relationships with teachers, and considering leadership and supervisory skills.
C342 - Teacher Work Sample in Elementary Education - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned during your
time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of your content,
planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C347 - Professional Portfolio - You will create an online teaching portfolio that includes professional artifacts (e.g. resume and Philosophy of
Teaching Statement) that demonstrate the skills you have acquired throughout your Demonstration Teaching experience.
C348 - Professional Portfolio - You will create an online teaching portfolio that includes professional artifacts (e.g. resume and Philosophy of
Teaching Statement) that demonstrate the skills you have acquired throughout your Demonstration Teaching experience.
C349 - Health Assessment - The Health Assessment course is designed to enhance students’ knowledge and skills in health promotion, the early
detection of illness and prevention of disease. To that end the course provides relevant content and skills necessary to perform a comprehensive
physical assessment of patients throughout the lifespan. Students are engaged in these processes through interviewing, history taking and
demonstration of an advanced-level physical examination. Dominant models, theories and perspectives related to evidence-based wellness practices
and health education strategies also are included in this challenging course. Competency is measured through successful completion of two
performance tasks. It is recommended that students plan to complete C349 in four to six weeks.
C350 - Comprehensive Health Assessment for Patients and Populations - In this course, students will learn about the principles of health
assessment from the individual to the global level. Students will learn to perform a comprehensive functional health assessment that includes social
structures, family history, and environmental situations, from the individual patient to the population. This course builds on prior knowledge gained in
previous courses and in nursing practice, in areas such as pathophysiology, pharmacology, and epidemiology, and focus on applying this knowledge
in various populations with common disorders.
This course is roughly divided into three parts:
• Advanced health assessment focusing on abnormal findings for common disease.
• Integrating health assessment findings into a population, considering such issue as culture, spirituality, and continuum.
• Functionality of clients based upon the problems and populations.
C351 - Professional Presence and Influence - Who we are and how we behave affects others. Our professional presence in therapeutic settings
can support or inhibit well-being not only in patients, but also in the rest of the health care team, in the family and support system of the patients, and
in the health care organization as a whole. This course will help registered nurses manage this impact by recognizing situations and practices that
support a positive environment and cultivating actions and responses to achieve and maintain this environment. The growth of self-knowledge will
expand nurses’ ability to direct influence in ways that are intended rather than in random or destructive ways.
C352 - Contemporary Pharmacotherapeutics - This course provides the opportunity to acquire advanced knowledge and skills in the therapeutic
use of pharmacologic agents, herbals, and supplements. Students will explore the pharmacologic treatment of major health problems and examine the
principles of pharmacogenomics. The effects of culture, ethnicity, age, pregnancy, gender, healthcare setting, and funding of pharmacologic therapy
will be emphasized. Legal aspects of prescribing will be fully addressed. Case studies will be utilized to present some of these concepts.
C358 - Foundations of Nursing Education - This graduate level course in the education specialty core examines the contemporary issues of nursing
education. While traditional contexts for learning are included, students will also focus on modern technology and trends in nursing education.
Students will explore curriculum development, educational philosophy, theories and models, instruction and evaluation, as well as e-learning,
simulations, and current technology in nursing education.
C359 - Future Directions in Contemporary Learning and Education - This course builds on previously developed concepts acquired in
Foundations of Nursing Education and Facilitating Learning in the 21st Century. This course will explore how changes in the economy, advancements
in science, and the explosion of technology have created a paradigm shift in nursing education. Graduates will further explore the role of the educator
and the application of innovative education strategies.
C360 - Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned
during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of
your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C361 - Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research - The Evidence Based Practice and Applied Nursing Research course will help
you to learn how to design and conduct research to answer important questions about improving nursing practice and patient care delivery outcomes.
After you are introduced to the basics of evidence-based practice, you will continue to implement the principles throughout your clinical experience.
This will allow you to graduate with more competence and confidence to become a leader in the healing environment.
C362 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply
differential calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative, the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration, optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's Rule. Pre-Calculus is a pre-requisite for this course.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 162
C363 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply
differential calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative, the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions, implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration, optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's Rule. Pre-Calculus is a pre-requisite for this course.
C365 - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention helps students learn how to implement effective
language arts instruction and intervention in the elementary classroom. Topics include written and spoken English, expanding students' knowledge,
literature rich environments, differentiated instruction, technology for reading and writing, assessment strategies for reading and writing, and strategies
for developing academic language.
C366 - Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods - Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods helps students learn how to teach reading and
literacy instruction in the elementary classroom by utilizing research based instructional practices. Topics include literacy development, balanced
literacy approach, literacy assessment, differentiated literacy instruction, technology supporting literacy development, and effective literacy teaching
practices.
C367 - Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods - Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods helps students learn how to
implement effective physical and health education instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include healthy lifestyles, student safety, student
nutrition, physical education, differentiated instruction for physical and health education, physical education across the curriculum, and public policy in
health and physical education.
C368 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Elementary Education - Instructional Planning and Presentation assists students as they
continue to build instructional planning skills. Topics include unit and lesson planning, instructional presentation strategies, assessment, engagement,
integration of learning across the curriculum, effective grouping strategies, technology in the classroom, and using data to inform instruction.
C369 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in Science - Students will continue to build instructional planning skills with a focus on selecting
appropriate materials for diverse learners, selecting age- and ability- appropriate strategies for the content areas, promoting critical thinking, and
establishing both short- and long- term goals
C375 - Survey of World History - Through a thematic approach, this course explores the history of human societies over 5,000 years. Students
examine political and social structures, religious beliefs, economic systems, and patterns in trade, as well as many cultural attributes that came to
distinguish different societies around the globe over time. Special attention is given to relationships between these societies and the way geographic
and environmental factors influence human development.
C379 - Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods - Elementary Reading and Literacy Methods helps students learn how to teach reading and
literacy instruction in the elementary classroom by utilizing research based instructional practices. Topics include literacy development, balanced
literacy approach, literacy assessment, differentiated literacy instruction, technology supporting literacy development, and effective literacy teaching
practices.
C380 - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention - Language Arts Instruction and Intervention helps students learn how to implement effective
language arts instruction and intervention in the elementary classroom. Topics include written and spoken English, expanding students' knowledge,
literature rich environments, differentiated instruction, technology for reading and writing, assessment strategies for reading and writing, and strategies
for developing academic language.
C381 - Elementary Mathematics Methods - Elementary Mathematics Methods helps students learn how to implement effective math instruction in
the elementary classroom. Topics include differentiated math instruction, mathematical communication, mathematical tools for instruction, assessing
math understanding, integrating math across the curriculum, critical thinking development, standards based math instruction, and mathematical
models and representation.
C382 - Elementary Science Methods - Elementary Science Methods helps students learn how to implement effective science instruction in the
elementary classroom. Topics include processes of science, science inquiry, science learning environments, instructional strategies for science,
differentiated instruction for science, assessing science understanding, technology for science instruction, standards based science instruction,
integrating science across curriculum, and science beyond the classroom.
C388 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. A humanistic and social endeavor, science serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for observing,
questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain the nature
and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations, make
decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C389 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. A humanistic and social endeavor, science serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for observing,
questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain the nature
and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations, make
decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C393 - IT Foundations - IT Foundations is the first course in a two-part series preparatory for the CompTIA A+ exam, Part I. Students will gain an
understanding of personal computer components and their functions in a desktop system, as well as computer data storage and retrieval; classifying,
installing, configuring, optimizing, upgrading, and troubleshooting printers, laptops, portable devices, operating systems, networks, and system
security; recommending appropriate tools, diagnostic procedures, preventative maintenance and troubleshooting techniques for personal computer
components in a desktop system; strategies for identifying, preventing, and reporting safety hazards and environmental/human accidents in a
technological environments; and effective communication with colleagues and clients as well as job-related professional behavior.
C394 - IT Applications - IT Applications is a continuation of the IT Foundations course preparatory for the CompTIA A+ exam, Part II.
Students will gain an understanding of personal computer components and their functions in a desktop system. Also covered is computer data storage
and retrieval, including classifying, installing, configuring, optimizing, upgrading, and troubleshooting printers, laptops, portable devices, operating
systems, networks, and system security. Other areas include recommending appropriate tools, diagnostic procedures, preventative maintenance and
troubleshooting techniques for personal computer components in a desktop system. The course then finished with strategies for identifying,
preventing, and reporting safety hazards and environmental/human accidents in a technological environments, and effective communication with
colleagues and clients as well as job-related professional behavior.
C395 - Instructional Planning and Presentation in English - Applications in Instructional Planning and Presentation in English, as a continuation of
the Instructional Planning and Presentation course, helps students apply, analyze, and reflect on effective classroom instruction.
C396 - English Pedagogy - English Pedagogy examines pedagogical applications for the teaching of reading, literature, composition, and related
English Language Arts (ELA) content and skills for middle and secondary schools. Focused on fostering and developing pedagogical content
knowledge in the aforementioned areas, students will analyze assessment strategies and incorporate methods of literacy instruction into their
instructional planning to meet the needs of diverse learners. This course helps students prepare and develop skills for classroom practice, lesson
planning, and working in school settings. C397 Preclinical Experiences in English is a prerequisite.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 163
C397 - Preclinical Experiences in English - Preclinical Experiences in English provides students the opportunity to observe and participate in a wide
range of in-classroom teaching experiences in order to develop the skills and confidence necessary to be an effective teacher. Students will reflect on
and document at least 60 hours of in-classroom observations. Prior to entering the classroom for the observations, students will be required to meet
several requirements including a cleared background check, passing scores on the state or WGU required basic skills exam, a completed resume,
philosophy of teaching, and professional photo.
C398 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 1 and 2 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C399 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 3 and Midterm - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C400 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observations 4 and 5 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a series
of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the teacher
candidate’s skills.
C401 - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English, Observation 6 and Final - Supervised Demonstration Teaching in English involves a
series of classroom performance observations by the host teacher and clinical supervisor that develop comprehensive performance data about the
teacher candidate’s skills.
C405 - Anatomy and Physiology II - Anatomy and Physiology II continues the examination of the human body systems first introduced in Anatomy
and Physiology I. This course invites students to take a deeper look into the terminology, structure, function and interdependent operational
relationships of human body systems. Students will continue their study of the nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, digestive,
endocrine, and reproductive systems. Additional topics include basic cell processes, metabolic functioning, the hematologic system, immunity and
principles of thermoregulation. Labs allow the student to explore organ systems and their physiological processes. In addition to these labs, students
are also given the opportunity to complete a hands–on fetal pig dissection. For nursing students this is the second of two anatomy and physiology
courses within the program of study. All students needed to have completed Anatomy and Physiology I in addition to English Composition I and II as
pre-requisites to this course.
C410 - Collaborative Leadership Project - The purpose of this course is to practice applying collaborative leadership skills in an innovative
environment while engaging with a community. You will combine innovation with leadership to serve patients. You will also identify an innovation
process that will serve the Navajo Area Indian Health Services (NAIHS) facility in the Navajo Nation. The main task will be to collaborate with
stakeholders on the proposed process to address obesity.
C417 - Analytical Methods of Healthcare Professionals - This course explores the significance of research and statistics in care management. You
will start by examining the role of evidence-based decisions in care management and how to evaluate the quality of research used to make those
decisions. You will examine the role of statistics in making evidence-based decisions about care management. Finally, you will learn how statistics are
used in healthcare and how to test the validity of statistics in order to make informed care management decisions.
C421 - Health Information Technology Project - A medical group has decided to move forward with the organizational initiative of reducing health
disparities, increasing access, and improving outcomes by leading a cooperative of local healthcare organizations in a Community Health Information
Exchange System (CHIES) expansion plan founded on the governor’s vision to advance HIEs. You will complete an assessment of a CHIE, propose
an updated Electronic Health Records System (EHRS), and complete a CHIE feasibility assessment.
C423 - Challenges in Community Health Project - Community-based integrated healthcare requires skills in communication, management, and
resource utilization among healthcare personnel, healthcare organizations, and community and state entities. You will apply appropriate actions and
strategies consistent with the organizational mission, values, and needs in interactions with community leaders and members of the community. You
will learn and demonstrate utilization of communication and collaboration skills and the evaluation and application of data in problem-solving skills at
both the organizational and community level.
C424 - Integrated Healthcare Project - You will develop and present a comprehensive case study and business plan that proposes an integrated
system that includes, at a minimum, a health plan, hospitals, skilled nursing homes, and home health organizations to meet the rising health demands
of the baby-boomer population. You will choose an area of the U.S. with existing healthcare organizations, and present a model of an “open delivery
system” that serves as a financial hedge, enables experimentation, integrates culture (patient population demographics and regional healthcare
values and principles), incentives wellness and preventative care), and is value-based and consumer driven.
C425 - Healthcare Delivery Systems, Regulation, and Compliance - This course provides an overview of the U.S. healthcare system and focuses
on developing an understanding of the various sectors and roles involved in this complex industry. Policy and compliance issues are also addressed to
facilitate an appreciation for the highly regulated nature of healthcare delivery.
C426 - Healthcare Values and Ethics - This course explores ethical standards and considerations common to the healthcare environment such as
access to care, confidentiality, the allocation of limited resources, and billing practices. This course also focuses on the distinct value system
associated with the healthcare industry, as well as the values of professionalism.
C427 - Technology Applications in Healthcare - This course explores how technology continues to change and influence the healthcare industry.
Practical managerial applications are explored as well as the legal, ethical, and practical aspects of access to health and disease information.
Ensuring the protection of private health information is also emphasized.
C428 - Financial Resource Management in Healthcare - This course examines the financial environment of the healthcare industry including
principles involved in managed care. It also explores the revenue and expense structures for different sectors within the industry while emphasizing
funding and reimbursement practices of healthcare.
C429 - Healthcare Operations Management - This course builds upon basic principles of management, organizational behavior, and leadership.
Specific processes and business principles for managing operations in interdependent and multi-disciplinary healthcare organizations are explored.
Marketing strategies, communication skills, and the ability to establish and maintain relationships while ensuring productivity that is efficient, safe, and
meets the needs of all stakeholders is emphasized.
C430 - Healthcare Quality Improvement and Risk Management - This course emphasizes principles of quality management and risk management
in order to ensure safety, maximize patient outcomes, and continuously improve organizational outcomes. This course also examines the broader
impact of organizational culture and its influence on productivity, quality, and risk.
C431 - Healthcare Research and Statistics - This course builds upon an understanding of research methods and quantitative analysis. Concepts of
population health, epidemiology, and evidence-based practices provide the foundation for understanding the importance of data for informing
healthcare organizational decisions.
C432 - Healthcare Management and Strategy - This course builds upon basic principles of strategic management and explores healthcare
organizational structures and processes. The importance of the collaborative nature and interrelationships among business functions is emphasized.
Creating a healthcare vision and designing business plans within a healthcare environment is also examined.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 164
C433 - Integrated Healthcare Management Capstone Project - The capstone project is a student-designed project intended to illustrate your ability
to effect change in the industry and demonstrate competence in all five core competencies of the curriculum. You are required to collaborate with
leaders in the healthcare industry to identify opportunities for improvement in healthcare, propose a solution, and perform a business analysis to
evaluate its feasibility. In addition, the capstone project encourages work in the healthcare industry that will be showcased in your collection of work
and help solidify professional relationships in the industry.
C439 - Healthcare Management Capstone - This course is the culminating experience and assessment of healthcare business administration. This
course requires the student to integrate and synthesize managerial skills with healthcare knowledge, resulting in a high quality final project that
demonstrates professional managerial proficiency.
C451 - Integrated Natural Science - Integrated Natural Sciences explores the natural world through an integrated perspective and helps students
begin to see and draw numerous connections among events in the natural world. Topics include the universe, the Earth, ecosystems and organisms.
C452 - Integrated Natural Science Applications - Integrated Natural Sciences Applications explores the natural world through an integrated
perspective and helps students apply scientific concepts and methodologies to the examination of natural science fundamentals.
C453 - Clinical Microbiology - Clinical Microbiology introduces general concepts, methods, and applications of microbiology from a health sciences
perspective. The course is designed to provide healthcare professionals with a basic understanding of how various diseases are transmitted and
controlled. Students will examine the structure and function of microorganisms, including the roles that they play in causing major diseases. The
course also explores immunological, pathological and epidemiological factors associated with disease. To assist students in developing an applied,
patient-focused understanding of microbiology, this course is complimented by several lab experiments which allow students to: practice aseptic
techniques, grow bacteria and fungi, identify characteristics of bacteria and yeast based on biochemical and environmental tests, determine antibiotic
susceptibility, discover the microorganisms growing on objects and surfaces, and determine the Gram characteristic of bacteria. This course has no
pre-requisites.
C455 - English Composition I - This course introduces learners to the types of writing and thinking that is valued in college and beyond. Students will
practice writing in several genres and several media, with emphasis placed on writing and revising academic arguments. The course contains
supporting media, articles, and excerpts to support a focus on one of five disciplinary threads (covering the topics of nursing, business, information
technology, teaching, and literature, art, and culture) designed to engage students and welcome them into discussion about contemporary issues. The
course supports peer review activities, though it may be completed asynchronously as well. Instruction and exercises in grammar, mechanics,
research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as necessary. This course includes full access
to the MindEdge Writing Pad to support student writing and coaching sessions.
C456 - English Composition II - English Composition II introduces undergraduate students to research writing. It is a foundational course designed to
help students prepare for advanced writing within the discipline and to complete the capstone. Specifically, this course will help students develop or
improve research, reference citation, document organization, and writing skills. English Composition I or equivalent is a prerequisite for this course.
C457 - Foundations of College Mathematics - Foundations of College Mathematics addresses the sequence of learning activities necessary to build
competence in foundational concepts of College Mathematics, which include whole numbers, fractions, decimals, ratios, proportions and percents,
geometry, statistics, the real number system, equations, inequalities, applications, and graphs of linear equations.
C458 - Health, Fitness and Wellness - Health, Fitness and Wellness focuses on the importance and foundations of good health and physical fitness,
particularly for children and adolescents, addressing health, nutrition, fitness, and substance use and abuse.
C459 - Introduction to Probability and Statistics - In this course, students demonstrate competency in the basic concepts, logic, and issues
involved in statistical reasoning. Topics include summarizing and analyzing data, sampling and study design, and probability.
C460 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators I - Mathematics for Elementary Educators I engages pre-service elementary teachers in
mathematical practices based on deep understanding of underlying concepts. The course covers important topics in problem solving, set theory,
number theory, whole numbers and integers. This is the first course in a three-course sequence.
C461 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators II - This course engages pre-service elementary teachers in mathematical practices based on deep
understanding of underlying concepts. This course takes the arithmetic of the first course and generalizes it into algebraic reasoning. The course also
touches on important topics in probability. This is the second course in a three-course sequence.
C462 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III engages pre-service elementary teachers in
mathematical practices based on deep understanding of underlying concepts. The course covers important topics in statistics, measurement, and
covers geometry from synthetic, transformational, and coordinate perspectives. This is the third course in a three-course sequence.
C463 - Intermediate Algebra - This course provides an introduction of algebraic concepts and the development of the essential groundwork for
College Algebra. Topics include: A review of basic mathematical skills, the real number system, algebraic expressions, linear equations, graphing,
exponents and polynomials
C464 - Introduction to Communication - This introductory communication course allows students to become familiar with the fundamental
communication theories and practices necessary to engage in healthy professional and personal relationships. Students will survey human
communication on multiple levels and critically apply the theoretical grounding of the course to interpersonal, intercultural, small group, and public
presentational contexts. The course also encourages students to consider the influence of language, perception, culture, and media on their daily
communicative interactions. In addition to theory, students will engage in the application of effective communication skills through systematically
preparing and delivering an oral presentation. By practicing these fundamental skills in human communication, students become more competent
communicators as they develop more flexible, useful, and discriminatory communicative practices in a variety of contexts.
C465 - Care of the Developing Family - The Care of the Developing Family Clinical and Simulation course includes all aspects of clinical learning
related to care of the developing family nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assesses advancing clinical competencies through the use of
high fidelity simulation and advanced clinical debriefing for clinical scenarios. Students engage in scenarios that represent patients with gestational
diabetes, a normal vaginal delivery, placenta previa, pre-eclampsia and post-partum hemorrhage. Learner competency will be assessed through
performance in the clinical intensive for Care of the Developing Family. Topics include care of the family during the prenatal period; care of the family
during the intrapartum period; care of the postpartum family; and health promotion of the family.
C466 - Medication Dosage Calculations - In Medication Dosage Calculations, students learn about individualized drug dosing concepts, including:
different measurement systems, solid and liquid medications, calculating dosages based on body weight or body surface area, interpreting drug labels
and abbreviations, and common medication errors.
C467 - Pharmacology - Pharmacology covers concepts in pharmacology including drug classification and effects, the role of the nurse in drug
therapy, preparation and administration of drugs, and ethical and legal issues surrounding medication administration. The Institute of Medicine reports
that cited medication errors as the most common medical errors, costing billions of dollars and harming up to 1.5 million people every year. Medication
errors are often the result of nurses failing to follow proper procedures. The pharmacology course covers the following concepts: the nursing process
in relation to drug therapy; the role of pharmacological principles in nursing; the role of the nurse in pharmacy and lifespan considerations; cultural,
ethical, and legal considerations; education and substance abuse; and gene therapy and pharmacology. This course introduces the nursing student to
these concepts and continues to integrate pharmacology throughout the clinical courses within the program.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 165
C468 - Information Management and the Application of Technology - Information Management and the Application of Technology helps the
student learn how to identify and implement the unique responsibilities of nurses related to the application of technology and the management of
patient information. This includes: understanding the evolving role of nurse informaticists; demonstrating the skills needed to use electronic health
records; identifying nurse-sensitive outcomes that lead to quality improvement measures; supporting the contributions of nurses to patient care;
examining workflow changes related to the implementation of computerized management systems; and learning to analyze the implications of new
technology on security, practice, and research.
C469 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I introduces nursing fundamentals
which speak to the core of all nursing care by assessing the needs of patients with compassion and respect; advocating for patients and their families;
providing education and comfort; and integrating patient needs into a plan of care that embraces individuality, diversity, and belief. Students continue
to learn about fundamental nursing skills within their didactic environment and will be provided time to practice in a learning lab environment.
C470 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part I Clinical Learning - This course includes all aspects of clinical learning related to the
fundamentals of nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess task skill knowledge including physical assessment, safe medication
administration, oxygenation; nutrition, metabolism, & elimination; skin integrity, activity, & mobility; and cognition. Students who are successful in lab
assessments will progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their mastery of basic levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of a
novice nursing student.
C471 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II topics include management of
the perioperative care continuum; patient centered care of the adult; care of the adult with alterations in circulation; car of the adult with alterations in
cardiovascular function; care of the adult with alterations in oxygenation; care of the adult with alterations in neurosensory function; fundamental
patient self-determination & advocacy; and end-of-life care. This course incorporates virtual simulations into the didactic course to help students
prepare for their learning labs and clinical learning experience. Patient scenarios for the virtual simulations include: fluid & electrolyte imbalance; blood
transfusion reaction; severe reaction to antibiotic; pulmonary embolism; and postoperative complications with a fracture.
C472 - Caring Arts and Science Across the Lifespan Part II Clinical Learning - The clinical learning course for CASAL II includes all aspects of
clinical learning related to medical surgical nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess task skill knowledge progressing to high fidelity
simulation scenarios to develop mastery of situated use of knowledge and synthesis of knowledge in clinical scenarios that focus on perioperative
care. The virtual simulations that students completed in didactic will prepare them for their learning lab scenarios. Students who are successful in lab
assessments will progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their mastery of basic levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of
Medical Surgical nursing.
C473 - Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses - The Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses course builds on prior knowledge of medical surgical
nursing care and common conditions, focusing on diseases and conditions that affect the neuromuscular system, the musculoskeletal system, the
kidneys, the pancreas, and diseases such as cancer and impaired immunity, which affect every part of the body. Students will develop mastery of
competencies related to advanced medical surgical nursing practice. This course also utilizes virtual simulation scenarios to help students prepare for
their learning labs and their clinical intensives. Students work through the following patient scenarios: diabetes/hypoglycemia; postop abdominal
hysterectomy/opioid intoxication; acute severe asthma; acute myocardial infarction; and respiratory system disease.
C474 - Clinical Learning for Complex Illnesses in Adults - Clinical Care of Adults with Complex Illnesses includes all aspects of clinical learning
related to advanced medical surgical nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess advanced clinical competencies through the use of high
fidelity simulation and advanced clinical debriefing for clinical scenarios. Students participate in skills related to advance medication administration,
central venous devices, and peripherally inserted central catheters. The virtual simulations that students completed in didactic will prepare them for
their learning lab scenarios. Students who are successful in simulation assessments will progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their
mastery of advanced levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of Medical Surgical nursing.
C475 - Care of the Older Adult - Care of the Older Adult adapts the concepts from prior coursework to the care of older adults. An understanding of
the effects that policy and legislation have on how healthcare systems treat aging patients sets a foundation for improving their care. Students will
apply health assessment skills and evidence-based standards in such a way to account for the specific needs of older adults. Emphasis is placed on
the importance of maintaining the dignity of older adults by focusing on cultural, religious, spiritual, and communication needs and by collaborating on
care with older adults, families, and caregivers.
C476 - Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing - In Psych/Mental Health, students will discover the many faces of mental illness and the role that the
nursing profession plays in managing care of patients and families struggling with a mental illness. Caring for patients with mental illness requires
patience and true compassion, a commitment to patient advocacy, and an in-depth understanding of psychopharmacology. Students will work through
current issues in mental health; take a look at ethical and legal issues in mental health; review foundations of practice and nursing assessment; learn
about therapeutic interventions and crisis management; learn about various mental health disorders and the care of these patients.
C477 - Nursing Care of Children - Nursing Care of Children explores the many facets of the pediatric population. The course materials cover the
following topics: well-child care; growth and development; immunizations; community health; health trends in pediatrics; disease processes of the
cardio-pulmonary system, the neurological system, gastrointestinal system, genitourinary system, respiratory system, integumentary system,
endocrine system, musculoskeletal and neuromusculoskeletal system; safe administration of medications, pain management, and hospitalization of
the pediatric population. This course also utilizes the virtual simulations to prepare students for their learning lab and clinical experience. The
scenarios covered with the virtual simulations include: anaphylaxis; pneumonia leading to respiratory distress (asthma); dehydration; generalized
tonic-clonic seizures; and sickle cell anemia.
C478 - Critical Care Nursing Clinical Learning - The clinical learning course for Critical Care Nursing includes all aspects of clinical learning related
to critical care nursing practice. Learning labs will teach and assess advanced clinical competencies through the use of high fidelity simulation and
advanced clinical debriefing for clinical scenarios. Students engage in scenarios that represent patients with hip fracture, gastrointestinal bleeding,
pancreatitis, acute kidney injury, congestive heart failure, and cerebrovascular accident. Students who are successful in simulation assessments will
progress to live patient clinicals and will be assessed for their mastery of advanced levels of the key behaviors for clinical practice of Critical Care
nursing.
C480 - Networks - Networks focuses on: network topologies including: protocols, ports, addressing schemes, routing, and wireless communication
standards; physical and logical topologies, including wiring standards; differentiating, installing, and configuring network devices; and troubleshooting
network connectivity. This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Network+.
C482 - Software I - Software I builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for Java application development. You
will learn about and put into action class design, exception handling, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop software that
meets business requirements. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming and the Java language.
C483 - Principles of Management - This course addresses strategic planning, total quality, entrepreneurship, conflict and change,
human resource management, diversity, and organizational structure.
C484 - Organizational Behavior and Leadership - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse
business environments. Students are asked to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management strategies in a
series of scenario-based problems.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 166
C486 - Organizational Systems: Safety and Regulation - The Organizational Systems course of study presents the required sequence of learning
activities developed to assist you in achieving competency in the safety and regulatory requirements mandated by the Joint Commission and
Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHA) Competency will be evaluated by completion of four modules in HealthStream. This course
represents one competency unit and should be completed in one week. Learning activities are presented in a sequential order and often build upon
prior activities and skills, it is therefore important that you complete the course of study in the order presented.
C487 - Psych/Mental Health Clinical - The clinical experience for psychiatric/mental health differs from other clinical intensives. Students are
required to have a total of 90 hours of clinical time and must document their hours on a time log. They will have a total of 72 scheduled hours and 18
hours that will be self-scheduled by the student—guidelines for self-scheduling are provided for the student. Students must also complete an
interpersonal process recording. Students will be assessed of their advancing for their mastery of advancing levels of key behaviors in the
psychiatric/mental health clinical.
C488 - Critical Care Nursing - Critical care environments are not limited to the intensive care unit, but can occur in emergency departments, surgery,
during transport, and sometimes during a disaster. The Critical Care Nursing course introduces the student to the critical care environment and
includes such topics as moral distress, the role of the critical care nurse, legal and ethical issues, health disparity, sleep deprivation, psychosocial
needs of not only the patient but their family, and end of life care. This course then takes a more in depth look at the various system failures students
might encounter in a critical care setting to include the pulmonary and cardiac systems; hemodynamics and neurology; endocrine and renal systems;
gastrointestinal system; shock; and hematology. At this point in the program the student is beginning to refine their critical thinking skills by integrating
their understanding of physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and the nursing process and applying this to various situations experience by the patient
and their family.
C489 - Organizational Systems and Quality Leadership - Nurses serve as clinicians, managers, and mentors to shape the future of healthcare and
impact patient care outcomes in positive ways. This course will help students to be more confident and better prepared to assume leadership roles
regardless of their position in the healthcare delivery system.This advanced leadership course focuses on the concepts of Patient Safety,
Improvement science, balancing cost, quality and access through the triple aim, leadership and patient/family centered care. Students will develop
mastery of advanced competencies particularly in patient safety in quality improvement science.
C490 - Professional Nursing Role Transition - This course is a three part course: preparing for the NCLEX; leadership learning experience; and
professional portfolio. After graduating from a nursing program, the student must take and pass the NCLEX-RN®. This is a high-stakes licensing exam
and success on the first attempt is very important. In order to prepare for the possibility of taking the long exam, students will need to practice taking
longer exams; and build up stamina to sit and concentrate that long. In this course, students will create an intense study plan and pass complete an
NCLEX-RN predictor exam. Students will also complete a Leadership Learning Experience (LLE) is designed to help the student learn more about the
various roles of a health care team. The student will participate in a specified number of interdisciplinary team meetings during a clinical experience.
The student may observe the various roles, but participation in the meetings will help with growth and learning. Successful completion of a written
paper will satisfy this portion of the course. The professional portfolio will showcase student accomplishments, knowledge, and skills and will increase
marketability as a baccalaureate-prepared nurse, and focuses on the concepts strengths, and clinical reasoning abilities that define professional
nursing practice. A passing grade of the submitted portfolio will satisfy this portion of the course.
C491 - Nursing Clinical Practicum - Before graduating, nursing students need to experience clinical as an independent member of the nursing team
who manages a standard patient load. Working under the supervision of a preceptor, the student will have an opportunity to test clinical reasoning,
patient care management, delegation and organizational skills in caring for a group of patients to complete 180 hours of supervised clinical practice.
The student is working to transition from novice student nurse to novice clinical nurse.
C492 - Physical Assessment - The physical assessment course is designed to help students build a cognitive understanding of a physical
assessment, as well as the skills used to conduct a physical assessment on patients across the lifespan. Students will work through activities that
enhance their learning and understanding of the physical assessment. These include learning about the importance of the health history, working
through the body systems through readings, case studies, and virtual simulations. Interviewing and advance history taking are an integral part of the
assessment process along with the skills to complete a primary physical assessment. Students will master these assessment competencies through
the use of virtual simulation reality experiences as well as demonstrating their competency in all aspects of physical assessment. This course is
taught in tandem with the Caring Arts and Sciences Across the Lifespan Part 1 course.
C493 - Leadership and Professional Image - Nursing is a practice discipline that includes direct and indirect care activities that affect health
outcomes. Baccalaureate nursing students are developing new competencies in leadership, and in order to achieve mastery, must apply those
competencies to live practice experiences and situations. In this course students will complete a Leadership Learning Experience (LLE) and develop
their own personal professional portfolio. The professional portfolio is a collection of artifacts from BSN coursework as well as a resume and personal
statement.
C494 - Advanced Standing for RN License -
C498 - MS, Information Technology Management Capstone - The MSITM Capstone Project allows the student to demonstrate their application of
the academic and professional abilities developed as a graduate student. The Capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge of
several domains in the program into one project.
C501 - Healthcare Informatics - Health informatics is an applied science blending the theories of
business, information technology,
management, medicine, and consumer-centered health care.
All these components are used to improve health care quality and its effectiveness and support the evaluation and assessment of health care
services. Technology changes the way health information is used to support clinical care. Adopting information systems is a long term commitment to
an organization-wide project. Health Informatics and Health Information Management Professionals are heavily involved in the twin responsibilities of
collecting, converting, and maintaining raw health data and finished health information and in the need to protect this data and information in the
electronic environment. Competency in this course will prepare you for these roles. It is advisable to have completed Healthcare Ecosystems and
Health Information Law and Regulations, or have experience in those areas, before embarking on this course.
C502 - Healthcare Statistics and Research - Healthcare organizations use statistical data to support decision-making and for strategic planning.
Health informatics and information management (HIIM) professionals use information systems for gathering, analyzing, and presenting data in
response to administrative and clinical needs. Each day HIIM professionals perform their job duties managing data and information in the health
record. The information found in the health record has great potential for:
· primary or secondary research,
· financial planning,
· legal purposes,
· quality improvement initiatives, and clinical decisions.
C504 - Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Management Level - This course supports the assessment for Professional Practice:
Management Portfolio II. The purpose of PPE II is to expound your experience by having you practice your future profession at the supervisory level.
Any site where health information is used and you can be mentored by a department or facility manager is appropriate for PPE II.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 167
C506 - Health Informatics Capstone Project - Health Informatics Capstone Project is the culmination of the student's degree program. It requires the
demonstration of competencies through a deliverable of significant scope in the form of a research project. The capstone project consists of a
technical work product applicable to the field of health informatics and information management. Students should consider creating this final product
with the aim of expanding the body of knowledge within the profession. The topic of the Capstone must be presented to and approved by the
Capstone Mentor before starting the project.
C508 - Pharmacology - Pharmacology covers concepts in Pharmacology including drug classification and effects, and the numerous types of
pharmacological interventions used to treat disease and disorders in the systems of the human body.
C509 - Professional Practice Experience and Portfolio - Technical Level - The Professional Practice Experience (PPE) is your opportunity to put
into practice all the health informatics/information management (HIIM) theories you have been studying. Any site where health information is managed
in any form is a potential PPE site. PPE sites can be healthcare facilities, pharmaceutical firms, software vendors, regional health information
exchanges, insurance companies, or healthcare research organizations. In addition, larger healthcare organizations may have experiences available
to you in their cancer registries, information technology department, finance/business offices, compliance office, quality assurance, utilization review,
or risk management departments.
C540 - MS SPED Teacher Work Sample - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned during your time in the
Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of your content, planning,
instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C561 - MS, Curriculum and Instruction Capstone - MS, Curriculum and Instruction Capstone takes the student through the steps of planning and
conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. Students will design, deliver, and evaluate a curriculum and
instructional unit based on their content area. They will implement curriculum and instruction, and evaluate the effectiveness.
C624 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application! Be sure to understand the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how
it is applied. By successfully completing this course, you will gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. You
will also begin to see the importance of this subject matter to health.
C626 - MED, Learning and Technology Capstone - MED, Learning and Technology Capstone takes the student through the steps of planning and
conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. Students will design, manage, and develop an instructional product for
which there is an identified need, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and reporting of results.
C627 - MA, Science Education (5-9) Teacher Work Sample - MA, Science Education (5-9) Teacher Work Sample contains a comprehensive,
original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the candidate’s ability to design
and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning process. The WGU Teacher
Work Sample requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting of seven components: 1) Contextual
factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of student learning, and 7) self-
evaluation and reflection.
C630 - MA, Science Education (5-12, Chemistry) Teacher Work Sample - MA, Science Education (5-12, Chemistry) Teacher Work Sample
contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Work Sample requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting of seven
components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of student
learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C631 - MA, Science Education (5-12, Geo) Teacher Work Sample - MA, Science Education (5-12, Geo) Teacher Work Sample contains a
comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Work Sample requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting of seven
components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of student
learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C633 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Work Sample - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Work Sample contains a
comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Work Sample requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting of seven
components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of student
learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C634 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Work Sample - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Work Sample contains a
comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Work Sample requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting of seven
components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of student
learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C635 - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone Written Project takes the student through the
steps of planning and conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. The result is expected to be a significant piece
of research, culminating in a written research report, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and
reporting of results.
C636 - MED, Instructional Design Capstone - MED, Instructional Design Capstone Written Project is the culminating assessment where learners
should be able to integrate and synthesize competencies from across the degree program and thereby demonstrate the ability to participate in and
contribute value to their chosen professional field.
C682 - Mathematics for Elementary Educators - Mathematics for Elementary Educators III engages pre-service elementary teachers in
mathematical practices based on deep understanding of underlying concepts. The course covers important topics in statistics, measurement, and
covers geometry from synthetic, transformational, and coordinate perspectives. This is the third course in a three-course sequence.
C683 - Natural Science Lab - This course gives you an introduction to using the scientific method and engaging in scientific research to reach
conclusions about the natural world. You will design and carry out an experiment to investigate a hypothesis by gathering quantitative data.
C688 - Cyberwarfare - This course introduces you to the real-world battlefield of cyberspace. It covers the history of cyberwarfare and the variety of
new concerns its emergence has fostered. This course explores how cyberwarfare has become an important part of the modern military arsenal and
provides strategies for protecting a threatened network, as well as strategies for dealing with specific cyber war actors and threats. It then concludes
with an exploration of the future of cyberwarfare considering the evolution of cyber-related capabilities, current threats, and emerging technology.
C697 - Operating Systems I - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Linux+ Part I.
C698 - Operating Systems II - This course prepares students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Linux+ Part II.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 168
C700 - Secure Network Design - This course provides an in-depth look at organizational challenges and threats to networks that are connected to
the public Internet. Network security will be discussed in the context of how hackers gain access to networks and the use of Firewalls and VPNs to
provide security countermeasures. Also covered are methods and technologies to prepare the student to disarm threats, plan for emerging
technologies and future attacks.
C701 - Ethical Hacking - Ethical Hacking builds the skills necessary to protect an organization's information system from unauthorized access and
system hacking. Topics include security threats, penetration testing, vulnerability analysis, risk mitigation, business-related issues, and
countermeasures. Students will learn how to expose system vulnerabilities, solutions for eliminating and/or preventing them, and how to apply hacking
skills on different types of networks and platforms. This course prepares students for the following certification exam: EC-Council’s Ethical Hacker
certification exam (312-50). This course has no prerequisites.
C702 - Forensics and Network Intrusion - Forensics and Network Intrusion builds proficiency in detecting hacking attacks and properly extracting
evidence to report the crime and conduct audits to prevent future attacks. Topics include computer forensics in today’s world; media and operating
system forensics; data and file forensics; audits and investigations; and device forensics. This course prepares students for the following certification
exam: EC-Council Computer Hacking Forensic Investigator. This course has no prerequisites.
C706 - Secure Software Design - This course provides a practical guide to establish proactive software security that focuses on analyzing risks,
understanding likely points of attack, and deciding how software responds to future attacks. Students learn how to construct software that can deal
with known and unknown attacks preemptively by examining systemic threats in various deployment environments and discussing vulnerabilities of
software applications.
C708 - Principles of Finance - This course provides students with the fundamental knowledge needed to understand and interact with finance
professionals and to apply financial tools in their professional and personal lives. It focuses on the financial management of companies, but the course
will also provide a foundation for specialized study in banking and investment for those who choose to continue their study of finance.
C711 - Introduction to Business - This course introduces students to the various functional areas within an organization (e.g. marketing, production,
finance, etc.) that support a firm’s overall business objectives.
C712 - Marketing Fundamentals - Marketing Fundamentals introduces students to principles of the marketing environment, social media, consumer
behavior, marketing research, and market segmentation. Students will also explore marketing strategies that are related to products and services,
distribution channels, promotions, sales, and pricing.
C713 - Business Law - This course introduces students to business law. Topics include the sources and types of law, contractual relationships,
government regulation of business, dispute resolution, alternative dispute resolution, tort and other civil liabilities, labor and employment law, and other
legal issues found in common business scenarios. Students will analyze examples of various business activities to learn whether specific laws apply.
C714 - Business Strategy - Strategy, Change and Organizational Behavior Concepts addresses complex material in the areas of organizational
behavior and strategic quality management. Topics include strategic planning, and competitive advantage.
This course focuses on models and practices of strategic management, including developing and implementing a strategy and evaluating performance
to achieve strategic goals and objectives.
C715 - Organizational Behavior - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse business
environments. Students are asked to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management strategies in a series of
scenario-based problems.
C716 - Business Communication - Business Communication is a survey course of communications skills needed in the business environment.
Course content includes writing messages, reports, résumés, and delivering oral presentations. Communication processes, writing skills, message
types, and presentation of data are emphasized. Development of these skills is integrated with the use of technology.
C717 - Business Ethics - Business Ethics is designed to enable students to identify the ethical and socially responsible courses of actions available
through the exploration of various scenarios in business. Students will also learn to develop appropriate ethics guidelines for a business.
C718 - Microeconomics - Microeconomics introduces you to foundational economic concepts. You will learn how households maximize utility and
firms maximize profit in order to allocate their scarce resources. Upon completion of this course, you will be able to explain opportunity costs, the
importance of competition, and how demand and supply work to determine equilibrium price and quantity in perfectly competitive markets and under
monopolistic competition, oligopoly, and monopoly.
C719 - Macroeconomics - Macroeconomics provides you with an in-depth overview of the economy as a whole. The course covers market structure,
essential models, theories, and policies that affect international and domestic economic systems. You will learn how the economy operates and how
society manages its costs, benefits, and trade-offs when allocating scarce resources through market demand and supply. Other topics include how
output and growth in the economy are measured with GDP and how the government and Federal Reserve influence growth, unemployment, and
inflation through fiscal and monetary policy.
C720 - Operations and Supply Chain Management - Operations and Supply Chain Management provides a streamlined introduction to how
organizations efficiently produce goods and services, determine supply chain management strategies, and measure performance. Emphasis is placed
on integrative topics essential for managers in all disciplines, such as supply chain management, product development, and capacity planning. You
will learn how to analyze processes, manage quality for both services and products, and measure performance, while creating value along the supply
chain in a global environment. Topics include forecasting, product and service design, process design and location analysis, capacity planning,
management of quality and quality control, inventory management, scheduling, supply chain management, and performance measurement.
C721 - Change Management - Change Management provides an understanding of change and an overview of successfully managing change using
various methods and tools. Emphasizing change theories and various best practices, you will learn how to recognize and implement change using an
array of other effective strategies, including those related to innovation and leadership. Other topics include approaches to change, diagnosing and
planning for change, implementing change, and sustaining change.
C722 - Project Management - Project Management prepares you to manage projects from start to finish within any organizational structure. The
course presents a view into different project-management methods and delves into topics such as project profiling and phases, constraints, building
the project team, scheduling, and risk. You will be able to grasp the full scope of projects you may work on in the future, and apply the proper
management approaches to complete a project. The course features practice in each of the project phases as you learn how to strategically apply
project-management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their goals.
C723 - Quantitative Analysis For Business - Quantitative Analysis for Business explores various decision-making models, including expected value
models, linear programming models, and inventory models. You will learn to analyze data by using a variety of analytic tools and techniques to make
better business decisions. In addition, you will develop project schedules using the Critical Path Method. Other topics include calculating and
evaluating formulas, measures of uncertainty, crash costs, and visual representation of decision-making models using electronic spreadsheets and
graphs.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 169
C724 - Information Systems Management - This course provides an overview of many facets of information systems applicable to business. The
course explores the importance of viewing information technology (IT) as an organizational resource that must be managed, so that it supports or
enables organizational strategy. Topics: The 7 competencies covered in the course include the primary processes involved in system development
(i.e., analysis, design, and implementation), networks, database resource management, hardware and software, e-commerce and social media, IS
security and ethics, and mobile vs. desktop computing. Students will learn how e-commerce, decision support, and communication are securely
facilitated in a global marketplace. The course also explores current and continuously evolving technologies, strategic thinking, and big-picture issues
at the intersection of management and technology.
C734 - Psychology for Educators - This course prepares candidates to meet the expectations of society and prepares future educators to support
classroom practice with research-validated concepts. The course helps future educators to create a framework for refining teaching skills that are
focused on the learner, through engaged inquiry of integrating theory, critical issues in psychology, classroom applications with diverse populations,
assessment, educational technology, and reflective teaching.
C736 - Evolution - Students will learn why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances in
medicine, public health and conservation. Course participants will gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution including the
process of speciation --- and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. They will also explore how new ideas,
discoveries and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we know what
we know.
C737 - Evolution - Students will learn why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances in
medicine, public health and conservation. Course participants will gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution including the
process of speciation --- and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. They will also explore how new ideas,
discoveries and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we know what
we know.
C738 - Space, Time and Motion - Throughout history, humans have grappled with questions about the origin, workings, and behavior of the universe.
This seminar begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers on to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton
and Albert Einstein. Einstein’s work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of motion, time, space, matter, and energy.
The course considers Einstein’s Special Theory of Relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his General Theory of Relativity and its
implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks at Einstein as a social and
political figure, and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and web resources enable
learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars, black holes, the Big Bang
and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C739 - Space, Time and Motion - Throughout history, humans have grappled with questions about the origin, workings, and behavior of the universe.
This seminar begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers on to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton
and Albert Einstein. Einstein’s work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of motion, time, space, matter, and energy.
The course considers Einstein’s Special Theory of Relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his General Theory of Relativity and its
implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks at Einstein as a social and
political figure, and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and web resources enable
learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars, black holes, the Big Bang
and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C740 - Fundamentals of Data Analytics - This courses provides an introduction to a variety of tools and techniques used in the field of data
analytics. Students will summarize data, review statistical models, explore data mining techniques, and contemplate ethical considerations associated
with the field of data analytics. This course presents a survey of concepts which will be explored more in-depth in subsequent courses in the MS Data
Analytics program.
C741 - Statistics for Data Analysis - This course covers a broad range of statistical techniques and methods applied in real-world settings. Topics
presented include inferential, parametric and non-parametric statistics, as well as regression analysis and analysis of variance.
C742 - Data Science Tools and Techniques - This course covers data science tools and techniques to perform data wrangling and exploration. You
will be introduced to programming languages and web scraping tools along with machine learning models.
C743 - Data Mining and Analytics I - This course is an introduction to data mining and exploratory data analysis, including text and web mining.
Topics include the use of data exploration methods to prepare data, familiarization with commercial data types commonly used for data mining, the
use of statistical and data mining software, including R, SAS and SPSS, and the comparison and classification of data mining methods.
C744 - Data Mining and Analytics II - This course examines the application of descriptive and predictive data mining techniques to reveal information
within a mass of data. Techniques include factor analysis, cluster analysis, classification methods, and neural networks to limit human subjectivity in
decision making processes.
C745 - Advanced Data Visualization - The focus of this course is visualizing and telling stories with data. This course begins with a description of the
growth of data and visualization in industry, news, and government. Actual human stories will be reviewed from a data-statistical perspective. The
creation of graphs, displays and geospatial data presentations to communicate information supporting decision making while implementing best
practices for effective storytelling will be examined.
C746 - Advanced SQL - This course prepares the student for the Oracle SQL Expert Certification (1Z0-047). Students will master the SQL language
to restrict and sort data, manage data, objects and tables, create schema objects, and control user access.
C747 - SAS Programming I: Fundamentals - This course prepares the student for the Base Programmer for SAS 9 Certification (A00-211). Students
will achieve competencies in SAS programming that will allow them to import and export raw data files, manipulate and transform data, combine SAS
data sets, identify and correct syntax errors, and write SAS code on the SAS platform.
C748 - SAS Programming II: Business Analysis Applications - This course prepares the student for the SAS Statistical Business Analyst for SAS
9 Certification (A00-240). Students will gain competency to conduct, interpret, and present complex statistical data analysis in the SAS platform.
C749 - Introduction to Data Science - This Introduction to Data Science course introduces the data analysis process and common statistical
techniques necessary for the analysis of data. Students will ask questions that can be solved with a given data set, set up experiments, use statistics
and data wrangling to test hypotheses, find ways to speed up their data analysis code, make their data set easier to access, and communicate their
findings.
C750 - Data Wrangling with MongoDB - This course elaborates on concepts covered in Introduction to Data Science, helping to develop skills
crucial to the field of data science and analysis. It explores how to wrangle data from diverse sources and shape it to enable data-driven applications—
a common activity in many data scientists' routine.
Topics covered include gathering and extracting data from widely-used data formats, assessing the quality of data, and exploring best practices for
data cleaning. This course also introduces MongoDB, covering the essentials of storing data and the MongoDB query language together with
exploratory analysis using the MongoDB aggregation framework.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 170
C751 - Data Analysis with R - This course focuses on exploratory data analysis (EDA) utilizing R. EDA is an approach for summarizing and
visualizing the important characteristics of a data set. Exploratory data analysis focuses on exploring data to understand the data’s underlying
structure and variables to develop intuition about the data set, to consider how that data set came into existence, and to decide how it can be
investigated with more formal statistical methods.
C752 - Data Visualization - This course covers the application of design principles, human perception, color theory, and effective storytelling in the
context of data visualization. It addresses presenting data to others, facilitating aspirations to be an analyst or data scientist, and advancing technology
with visualization tools. Additionally, this course focuses on how to visually encode and present data to an audience.
C753 - Machine Learning - This course presents the end-to-end process of investigating data through a machine learning lens. Topics covered
include: techniques for extracting data, identifying useful features that best represent data, a survey of commonly-used machine learning algorithms,
and methods for evaluating the performance of machine learning algorithms.
C754 - Structured Query Language - This course focuses on structured query language (SQL). It starts with a review of the basic statements and
continues on to the creation of complex queries that affect multiple tables and utilize SQL functions. Data manipulation language (DML) and data
definition language (DDL) are also covered, thus enabling the student to create and maintain database objects and modify data by using SQL
commands.
C755 - Database Server Administration - This course covers the installation, configuration, and administration of database servers. Students will be
introduced to all the logical and physical components of a database server and learn to set up a server in a network environment. Tools and strategies
for access and space management will be covered, as well as backup, restoration, and upgrade techniques.
C756 - Data Analytics - This course covers the most common tools, techniques, and procedures involved in data analytics. Students will review all
the disciplines involved with data analytics learned in previous courses and get a better understanding of how they all relate to one another.
C757 - Advanced Biology - Advanced Biology builds on the four main themes of biological science that have been introduced in earlier courses,
providing students with an in-depth exploration of cellular biology, heredity, interdependence of life, and ecology. Course content provides students
with opportunities to investigate the structure and function of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells and to analyze the structure and regulation of DNA to
learn how genetics influences inheritance patterns. Ecology themes in the course explain how climate variations, interactions between organisms,
biodiversity and population growth impact the environment. RJT1: Principles of Biology is a pre-requisite for this course.
C758 - Advanced Biology - Advanced Biology builds on the four main themes of biological science that have been introduced in earlier courses,
providing students with an in-depth exploration of cellular biology, heredity, interdependence of life, and ecology. Course content provides students
with opportunities to investigate the structure and function of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells and to analyze the structure and regulation of DNA to
learn how genetics influences inheritance patterns. Ecology themes in the course explain how climate variations, interactions between organisms,
biodiversity and population growth impact the environment. RJT2: Principles of Biology is a pre-requisite for this course.
C762 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Science - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned
during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of
your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C763 - Healthcare Information Systems Management - Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of information
systems that are applicable to business and healthcare. The course explores how information technology (IT) is an organizational resource that must
be managed so that it supports or enables organizational strategy. The course will discuss how decision support and communication are securely
facilitated in a global marketplace. The course also explores current and continuously evolving technologies, strategic thinking, and issues at the
intersection of management and technology.
C764 - MA, Science Education (5-12 Physics) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Science Education (5-12, Physics) Teacher Performance
Assessment contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct
evidence of the candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect
on the learning process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional
unit consisting of seven components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision
making, 6) analysis of student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C765 - MA, Science Education (5-12 Bio)Teacher Performance Assessment - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a written project
containing a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of
the candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the
learning process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit
consisting of seven components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6)
analysis of student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C768 - Technical Communication - This course covers basic elements of technical communication, including professional written communication
proficiency; the ability to strategize approaches for differing audiences; and technical style, grammar, and syntax proficiency.
C769 - IT Capstone Written Project - The capstone project consists of a technical work proposal, the proposal’s implementation, and a post-
implementation report that describes the graduate’s experience in developing and implementing the capstone project. The capstone project should be
presented and approved by the mentor in relation to the graduate’s technical emphasis.
C772 - Data Analytics Graduate Capstone - The Data Analytics Graduate Capstone course allows the student to demonstrate their application of the
academic and professional abilities developed as a graduate student. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from
several program domains into one project.
C773 - User Interface Design - This course covers tools and techniques employed in user interface design including web and mobile applications.
Concepts of clarity, usability and detectability are included in this course as well as other design elements such as color schemes, typography, and
layout . Techniques like wireframing, usability testing, and SEO optimization are also covered. This course prepares students for the CIW User
Interface Designer certification.
C777 - Web Development Applications - This course prepares students for the CIW Advanced HTML5 and CSS3 Specialist certification exam. This
course builds upon a student's manual coding skills by teaching how to develop web documents and pages using the Web Development Trifecta:
HTML5 (Hypertext Markup Language version 5) and CSS3 (Cascading Style Sheets version 3) and JavaScript. Students will utilize the skills learned
in this course to create web documents and pages that easily adapt to display on both traditional and mobile devices. In addition, students will learn
techniques for code validation and testing, form creation, inline form field validation, and mobile design for browsers and apps, including Responsive
Web Design (RWD).
C779 - Web Development Foundations - This course introduces students to web design and development by presenting them with HTML5 and
CSS, the foundational languages of the web, by reviewing media strategies, and by using tools and techniques commonly employed in web
development.
C783 - Project Management - In this course, students examine project management concepts based on the five process groups and ten knowledge
areas identified in the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) Guide in preparation for completing the PMI Certified Associate in Project
Management (CAPM) certification exam.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 171
C784 - Applied Healthcare Statistics - Applied Healthcare Probability and Statistics is designed to help you develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic mathematics, introductory algebra, and statistics and probability. These concepts include: basic arithmetic with fractions and signed
numbers; introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical data and probability are now
commonplace in the healthcare field. You need to be able to make informed decisions about which studies and results are valid, which are not, and
how those results affect your decisions. This course will give you background in what constitutes sound research design and how to appropriately
model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, you will be able to calculate simple probabilities, especially based on events which occur in the
healthcare profession. This course will prepare you for your studies at WGU, as well as in the healthcare profession.
C785 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application! Be sure to understand the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how
it is applied. By successfully completing this course, you will gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. You
will also begin to see the importance of this subject matter to health.
C787 - Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science - Nutritional ignorance or misunderstandings are at the root of the health problems that
most Americans face today. Nurses need to be armed with the most current information available about nutrition science including how to understand
nutritional content of food, implications of exercise and activity on food consumption and weight management, and management of community or
population specific nutritional challenges. The Nutrition for Contemporary Society course should prepare nurses to provide support, guidance and
teaching about incorporation of sound nutritional principles into daily life for health promotion. This course covers the following concepts: nutrition to
support wellness; healthy nutritional choices; nutrition and physical activity; nutrition through the lifecycle; safety and security of food; and nutrition and
global health environments.
C790 - Foundations in Nursing Informatics - This course addresses the integration of technology to improve and support nursing practice. It
provides nurses with a foundational understanding of nursing informatics theory, practice, and applications. Topics include the role of nursing in
informatics; use of computer technology for clinical documentation, communication, and workflows; problem identification; project implementation; and
best practices.
C791 - Advanced Information Management and the Application of Technology - In this course you will examine complementary roles of master’s
level-prepared nursing information technology professionals, including informaticists and quality officers. You will analyze current and emerging
technologies; data management; ethical legal and regulatory best-practice evidence; and bio-health informatics using decision-making support
systems at the point of care.
C792 - Data Modeling and Database Management Systems - This graduate course is designed to engage the student in planning, analyzing, and
designing a relational database management system (DBMS) for use by nurse administrators, clinicians, educators, and informaticists. This
experience will provide the knowledge needed to advocate for nursing informatics needs within the field of healthcare.
C793 - Nursing Informatics Field Experience - In the Nursing Informatics Field Experience, you will complete a hands-on field experience while
working with a preceptor in a setting relevant to your professional situation and nursing informatics. Today’s rapidly changing health delivery system
requires nurse informaticists to be prepared to effectively lead change and facilitate learning that is dynamic and meets the needs of a diverse student
and professional nursing population. To help you develop competency in this area, you will apply methods and solutions to support clinical decisions
and improve health outcomes by designing data collection instruments, developing a database management system and analyzing data using
statistical and geospatial techniques in a simulated environment.
C794 - Nursing Informatics Capstone - The Nursing Informatics Capstone is the final leg in your journey to graduation. During this course, you will
present evidence of the knowledge and skills you gained during this program by completing a comprehensive evaluation of a health information
system. You will develop a multimedia presentation that reviews and reflects on your learning experiences during the Nursing Informatics program.
This scholarly presentation is a synthesis that illustrates the acquisition of nursing informatics knowledge, skills, and competencies. Your final
presentation should demonstrate how the integration of nursing informatics facilitates the transformation of data and information to knowledge and
wisdom in a nursing practice. The presentation will be developed using the best practices for narrated PowerPoint presentations (see the MSN
Capstone Presentation section for details).
C797 - Data Science and Analytics - This course addresses the interdisciplinary and emerging field of data science in healthcare. Students will learn
to combine tools and techniques from statistics, computer science, data visualization, and the social sciences to solve problems using data. Topics
include data analysis, database management, inferential and descriptive statistics, statistical inference, and process improvement.
C798 - Informatics System Analysis and Design - In Informatics System Analysis and Design, a broad understanding of data systems is covered to
build upon the Foundations in Nursing Informatics course. The importance of effective interoperability, functionality, data access, and user satisfaction
are addressed. The student will be analyzing reports and integrating federal regulations, research principles, and principles of environmental health in
the construction of a real-world systems analysis and design project. This course will be directly applicable to healthcare settings as electronic records
management has become compulsory for healthcare providers. All of the information in this course will be directly tied to the delivery of quality patient
care and patient safety.
C799 - Healthcare Ecosystems - Healthcare Ecosystems explores the history and state of healthcare organizations in an ever-changing
environment. This course covers how agencies influence healthcare delivery through legal, licensure, certification, and accreditation standards. The
course will also discuss how new technologies and trends keep healthcare delivery innovative and current.
C801 - Health Information Law and Regulations - Health Information Law and Regulations prepares students to manage health information in
compliance with legal guidelines and teaches how to respond to questions and challenges when legal issues occur. This course presents the types of
situations occurring in health information management that could result in ethical dilemmas and establishes a foundation for work based on legal and
ethical guidelines.
C804 - Medical Terminology - Medical Terminology focuses on the basic components of medical terminology and how terminology is used when
discussing various body structures and systems. Proper use of medical terminology is critical for accurate and clear communication among medical
staff, health professionals, and patients. In addition to the systems of the body, this course will discuss immunity, infections, mental health, and cancer.
C805 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is an overview of the pathology and treatment of diseases in the human body and its systems. This
course will explain the processes in the body that result in the signs and symptoms of disease, as well as therapeutic procedures in managing or
curing the disease. The content draws on a knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand how diseases manifest themselves and how they
affect the body.
C807 - Healthcare Compliance - Healthcare Compliance examines the role of the coding professional within healthcare information management.
The course covers compliance plans, issues that arise with noncompliance, and management of internal and external audits.
C811 - Healthcare Financial Resource Management - Healthcare Financial Resource Management examines financial practices within healthcare
industries to promote effective management at department and organization levels. Focusing on financial processes associated with facility operations
in the healthcare field, this course will analyze the impact of strategic financial planning and regulatory control processes. This course has no
prerequisites.
C812 - Healthcare Reimbursement - Healthcare Reimbursement explores financial practices within the healthcare industry as they relate to
reimbursement policies. This course identifies how reimbursement systems impact the revenue cycle and a health information manager's role. This
course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 172
C815 - Quality and Performance Management and Methods - Quality and Performance Management and Methods examines quality initiatives
within healthcare. Quality issues cover human resource management, employee performance and patient safety. This course focuses on quality
improvement initiatives and performance improvement with the health information management perspective.
C820 - Professional Leadership and Communication for Healthcare - The Leadership and Communication course is designed to help students
prepare for success in the online environment at Western Governors University and beyond. Student success starts with the social support and self-
reflective awareness that will prepare students to weather the challenges of academic programs. In this course students will participate in group
activities and complete a number of individual assignments. The group activities are aimed at finding support and insight from other students. The
assignments are intended to give the student an opportunity to reflect about where they are and where they would like to be. The activities in each
group meeting are designed to give students several tools they can use to achieve success. This course is designed as a eight-part intensive learning
experience. Students will attend eight group meetings during the term. At each meeting students will engage in activities that help them understand
their own educational journey and find support and inspiration in the journey of others.
C821 - Nursing Education Field Experience - Nurse educators teach the next generation of nurses, in academic and clinical settings. They must be
licensed to practice nursing and have considerable hands-on nursing experience, as well as advanced training and education. The Nursing Education
Field Experience provides the graduate student with an opportunity to work collaboratively within the organization where he/she is employed to
address an identified nursing problem, need, or gap in current practices. Students then work to promote a practice change, quality improvement, or
innovation that is based on the existing evidence and best practices.
C822 - Nurse Educator Capstone - The capstone is a scholarly project that addresses an issue, need, gap or opportunity resulting from an identified
in nursing education or healthcare need. The capstone project provides the opportunity for the graduate nursing student to demonstrate competency
through design, application and evaluation of advanced nursing knowledge and higher level leadership skills for ultimately improving health outcomes
C823 - Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience - Today’s rapidly changing healthcare delivery environment requires nurse
executives to effectively lead change to achieve organization goals and improvements. Registered nurses needs to hold an active nursing license and
have considerable clinical experience and education to become a nurse leader or manager. The Nursing Leadership and Management Field
Experience provides the graduate student with an opportunity to work collaboratively within the organization where he/she is employed to address an
identified nursing problem, need, or gap in current practices. Students then work to promote a practice change, quality improvement, or innovation that
is based on the existing evidence and best practices.
C824 - Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone - The Nursing Leadership and Management capstone course provides the student with an
opportunity to engage in a project that is actionable, relevant, highly collaborative, and based on real world experience. The capstone involves
development of a scholarly project that addresses a problem, need, or gap in current practices. The capstone project provides an opportunity for the
graduate nursing student to demonstrate competency through design, application, and evaluation of a planned practice change, quality improvement,
or innovation that is based on the existing evidence and best practices.
C825 - Introduction to Nursing Arts and Science - Intro to Nursing Clinical Skills is a skills lab section in which students will have the opportunity to
practice skills learned in didactic in a learning lab. Students will be introduced to and learn the fundamental skills of nursing, including: assessment,
vital signs, principles of safety, equipment uses, bathing, oral hygiene, perineal care, principles of asepsis, ambulating, transferring, range of motion,
restraints, fall prevention, and communication. Students successful in the lab assessment will be considered for admission to the BSRN program.
C826 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing will assist students in becoming
familiar with foundational theories and models of health promotion applicable to the community health nursing environment. Students will develop an
understanding of how policies and resources influence the health of populations. Focus is concentrated on learning the importance of a community
assessment to improve or resolve a community health issue. Students will be introduced to the relationships between cultures and communities and
the steps necessary to create community collaboration with the goal to improve or resolve community health issues in a variety of settings. Students
will gain a greater understanding of health systems in the United States, global health issues, quality-of-life issues, cultural influences, community
collaboration, and emergency preparedness.
C828 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety of
skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a
collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C829 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Elementary and Special Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the
wide variety of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you
will showcase a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C830 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Mathematics Education - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety
of skills learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase
a collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C847 - Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners - Students will learn the history of inclusion and develop practical
strategies for modifying instruction, in accordance with legal expectations, to meet the needs of a diverse population of learners. This population
includes learners with disabilities, gifted and talented learners, culturally diverse learners, and English language learners.
C848 - Fundamentals of Diversity, Inclusion, and Exceptional Learners - Students will learn the history of inclusion and develop practical
strategies for modifying instruction, in accordance with legal expectations, to meet the needs of a diverse population of learners. This population
includes learners with disabilities, gifted and talented learners, culturally diverse learners, and English language learners.
C852 - Teacher Performance Assessment in Social Science - The Teacher Performance Assessment is a culmination of the wide variety of skills
learned during your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a
collection of your content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C853 - Teacher Performance Assessment in English - The Teacher Performance Assessment serves as the final, culminating project in your
degree program. It is a formal, scholarly piece of work. You are required to design and develop a two-week-long (minimum), standards-based
curriculum unit. You will then implement (i.e., teach) the unit in your classroom and gather data as to its effectiveness.
C860 - Innovation Project - This course explores healthcare innovation by having you compare examples, apply concepts, perform research and
analysis, and create original work. You will complete and submit an Innovation proposal form describing a new technology to decrease clinic wait
times.
C861 - Healthcare Systems Project - You will explore healthcare systems by evaluating the needs of a group medical center to expand care to a
growing population of underserved and underinsured patients. You will assess the value of affiliation with other providers and potential payers, analyze
several healthcare organizations as potential partners for affiliation, and determine what type of affiliation structure will best meet the needs of the
medical center. This project culminates in the creation of a proposed “affiliation recommendation” that summarizes the assessment of three candidate
organizations.
C862 - Healthcare Quality Project - You will use Six Sigma principles and strategies, as well as other quality concepts (DMAIC), to address problems
of high patient wait times and poor physician communication at a highly functioning level 1 trauma center. You will develop a healthcare quality
improvement process that implements the five phases of a Six Sigma approach. You will also analyze challenges executives face in identifying,
synthesizing, and acting upon healthcare data to improve operations and patient-centered care.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 173
C863 - Healthcare Financial Management Project - You will develop a value-based payment model and strategic implementation plan to provide
high-quality, most cost-effective care to a high-risk patient population. The organization is currently not equipped to take on the risks inherent in the
population of Southern Florida. To create a successful plan, you will analyze and interpret data to determine the population's need and justify that their
organization can financially support and sustain the new system.
C864 - Enterprise Risk Management Project - You will take on the role of a consulting risk manager for the Phoenix VA Health Care System
(PVAHCS) to address the Office of Inspector General’s report. You begin by identifying and analyzing risk issues embedded within a real-world
scenario. You will use enterprise risk management (ERM) concepts to create and define implementation strategies for an ERM plan to mitigate and
manage the risks identified. Finally, you will recommend a new system model.
C865 - Population Health and Care Coordination Project - You will design a chronic care population management plan and change a health
system's model to one that focuses on patient and family. You will review a model from Mississippi that has expanded Medicaid where the
opportunities to develop partnerships are ideal. To help control costs, you will develop a wellness and prevention program alongside the disease
management model already being used in a system of their choice.
CQC2 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in relation to the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills
necessary to apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include
antiderivatives; indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; definite integrals; acceleration,
velocity, position, and initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration;
improper integration; area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations;
direction fields; growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
CUA1 - Culture - Focuses on the nature and role of culture and the importance of cultural groups and cultural identity.
CWEL - Capstone Written Project in Educational Leadership - The capstone project will consist of the design and implementation of a short-term
datadriven school improvement initiative. Through the case study approach and during the capstone experience, you will identify one or more
measurable outcome improvement areas in your case study / practicum site. You will propose and develop short-term school improvement initiatives
and will then measure the outcomes and results of your implemented improvement initiatives.
CXV2 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help students refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become a successful secondary mathematics teacher. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and
Pre-Calculus.
CYV2 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - This course is designed to help you refine and integrate the mathematics content
knowledge and skills necessary to become a successful middle school mathematics teacher. Successful completion of the course requires a high-level
of mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems.
CZC1 - Accounting II - Accounting II is a continuation of the topics that were addressed in Accounting I. Accounting II focuses on ways in which
accounting principles are used in business operations, deepening the student's understanding of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP),
inventory, liabilities, and budgets. This course also introduces topics that are important for corporate accounting and financial analysis.
CZV2 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student’s conceptual understanding of a broad range of Biology
topics. High School Biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. For example, when studying hormones created
by endocrine glands traveling through the circulatory system to maintain homeostasis – a student is connecting many Biology topics. This course
starts with macromolecules that make up cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist.
Connections are then made between genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ
systems and their role in maintaining homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and humans effects on the environment.
DAV2 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include mechanics, electricity and magnetism, optics and waves, heat and thermodynamics, modern
physics, atomic and nuclear structure, the history and nature of science, science technology, and social perspectives.
DBV2 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle-level science teacher is expected to
know and understand. Topics include scientific methodolgoies, history of science, basic science
principles, physical sciences, life sciences, Earth and space sciences, and the role of science and technology and their impact on society.
DCV2 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - Chemistry: Content Knowledge provides advanced instruction in the main areas of chemistry for which
secondary chemistry teachers are expected to demonstrate competency. Topics include matter and energy, thermochemistry, structure, bonding,
reactivity, biochemistry and organic chemistry, solutions, nature of science, technology and social perspectives, mathematics, and laboratory
procedures.
DDV2 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary Earth Science teachers is
expected to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of Earth and Space Sciences, tectonics and internal Earth processes,
Earth materials and surface processes, history of the Earth and its Life-Forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphhere, and astronomy.
DPT1 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves, focusing on such topics as: Electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism, electromagnetic
induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
DPT2 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves, focusing on such topics as: Electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism, electromagnetic
induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
DRC1 - Educational Assessment - Educational Assessment assists students in making appropriate data-driven instructional decisions by exploring
key concepts relevant to the administration, scoring, and interpretation of classroom assessments. Topics include ethical assessment practices,
designing assessments, aligning assessments, and utilizing technology for assessment.
DWP2 - Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods - Application of Elementary Social Studies Methods helps students learn how to
implement effective social studies instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include social studies themes, promoting cultural diversity,
integrated social studies across the curriculum, social studies learning environments, assessing social studies understanding, differentiated instruction
for social studies, technology for social studies instruction, and standards-based social studies instruction. This course helps students to apply,
analyze, and reflect on effective elementary social studies instruction.
DZP2 - Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods - Application of Elementary Visual and Performing Arts Methods helps
students learn how to implement effective visual and performing arts instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include integrating arts across the
curriculum, music education, visual arts, dance and movement, dramatic arts, differentiated instruction for visual and performing arts, and promoting
cultural diversity through visual and performing arts instruction. This course helps students to apply, analyze, and reflect on effective elementary visual
and performing arts instruction.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 174
EBP2 - Application of Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods - Applications of Elementary Physical Education and Health Methods
helps students learn how to implement effective physical and health education instruction in the elementary classroom. Topics include healthy
lifestyles, student safety, student nutrition, physical education, differentiated instruction for physical and health education, physical education across
the curriculum, and public policy in health and physical education. This course helps students to apply, analyze, and reflect on effective elementary
visual and performing arts instruction.
EFP1 - Cultural Studies and Diversity - Cultural Studies and Diversity focuses on the development of cultural awareness. Students will analyze the
role of culture in today’s world, develop culturally-responsive practices, and understand the barriers to and the benefits of diversity.
EFV1 - Behavioral Management and Intervention - Behavioral Management and Intervention explores the challenges of working with students with
emotional and behavioral disabilities and helps students learn about theories, interventions, practices, and assessments that can influence these
children's opportunities for success. It further helps students better be able to make decisions about how to strategize behavior
adjustments for individual students.
EFV2 - Behavioral Management and Intervention - Behavioral Management and Intervention explores the challenges of working with students with
emotional and behavioral disabilities and helps students learn about theories, interventions, practices, and assessments that can influence these
children's opportunities for success. It further helps students better be able to make decisions about how to strategize behavior adjustments for
individual students.
ELO1 - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL integrates aspects of pedagogy, assessment, and professionalism in
English Language Learning (ELL). A student develops and assesses aspects of language curriculum development including second language
instruction, methods of second language assessment, and legal policy issues.
EST1 - Ethical Situations in Business - Ethical Situations in Business explores various scenarios in business and helps students learn to develop
ethical and socially responsible courses of action. Students will also learn to develop an appropriate and comprehensive ethics program for a business
venture.
EXP2 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply geometry to model and solve real-life problems, to
do formal axiomatic proofs in geometry, and to use dynamic technology to explore geometry. Topics include axiomatic systems and analytic proof;
non-Euclidean geometries; construction, analytic, and synthetic methods for investigating and proving properties and relationships of two- and three-
dimensional objects; geometric transformations, tessellations, and using inductive reasoning; concrete models; and dynamic technology to conduct
geometric investigations. College Algebra and Pre-Calculus are prerequisites for this course.
FCC1 - Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal Issues - Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal Issues introduces the history
and nature of special education and how it relates to general education, as well as specific legal acts and concepts governing it. Topics include history
of special education, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, the No Child Left Behind Act, FAPE (free, appropriate public education), and least
restrictive environments.
FCC2 - Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal Issues, Policies and Procedures - Introduction to Special Education, Law and Legal
Issues, Policies and Procedures introduces the history and nature of special education and how it relates to general education, as well as specific
legal acts and concepts governing it. Topics include history of special education, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, the No Child Left
Behind Act, FAPE (free, appropriate public education), and least restrictive environments.
FEA1 - Field Experience for ELL - Field Experience for ELL is the field experience component of the English Language Learning program. In this
experience, students are required to complete a minimum of 15 hours of observations at both elementary and secondary levels. Additionally, a
supervised teaching experience that is face-to-face with English language learners according to the minimum time requirements of your state is
required. The purpose of this course is to assess the ability of the student including their engagement in field experience activities, ability to reflect on
and then plan standards-based instruction in ELL, and their ability to locate and effectively use resources for teaching ELL to meet the needs of their
individual students.
FJC1 - Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP Development/Implementation - Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP
Development/Implementation prepares students to apply knowledge the IEP as they work with students who have mild to moderate disabilities in a
wide variety of possible situations, all with an emphasis on cross-categorical inclusion. It helps students gain fluency in their understanding of the 13
disability categories, assessment, curriculum, and instruction.
FJC2 - Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP Development/Implementation - Psychoeducational Assessment Practices and IEP
Development/Implementation prepares students to apply knowledge the IEP as they work with students who have mild to moderate disabilities in a
wide variety of possible situations, all with an emphasis on cross-categorical inclusion. It helps students gain fluency in their understanding of the 13
disability categories, assessment, curriculum, and instruction.
FLC1 - Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and Culturally Response Teaching - Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and
Culturally Response Teaching helps students understand the role of special education in the development of instruction, why this field exists separate
from and in conjunction with general education, where it is going, and how they can help coordinate inclusion for students. Students will gain expertise
in developing instructional, curricular, and environmental interventions based on assessment data and student need.
FLC2 - Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and Culturally Responsive Teaching - Instructional Models and Design, Supervision and
Culturally Responsive Teaching helps students understand the role of special education in the development of instruction, why this field exists
separate from and in conjunction with general education, where it is going, and how they can help coordinate inclusion for students. Students will gain
expertise in developing instructional, curricular, and environmental interventions based on assessment data and student need.
FTC5 - Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration - Foundations of Teaching Practice Integration helps students to review and synthesize
foundational teaching concepts including classroom management, human development, assessment, diversity and inclusion, and the historical, legal,
and philosophical foundations of education.
FVC1 - Global Business - This course provides an introduction to global business. The advantages of global production and the benefits of trade are
critical aspects of global business. Many factors influence global business, such as transparency, geography, corruption, intellectual property
protections, outsourcing and off-shoring, operation management, and generally accepted accounting principles.
FXT2 - Disaster Recovery Planning, Prevention and Response - This course prepares students to plan and execute industry best practices related
to conducting organization-wide information assurance initiatives and to preparing an organization for implementing a comprehensive Information
Assurance Management program.
GNC2 - Integrated Natural Sciences - Integrated Natural Sciences covers the subject area of natural sciences, including the use of the scientific
method to derive conclusions based on research. Topics covered include astronomy, geology, environmental science and ecosystems, and
organisms.
GRT2 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include
nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application! Be sure to understand the underlying biochemistry in order to
grasp how it is applied. By successfully completing this course, you will gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain
life. You will also begin to see the importance of this subject matter to health.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 175
HMP1 - Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management - During Cases in Advanced Human Resource Management students apply their
knowledge of human resource management by completing a case study. Students will apply critical human resource strategies in the areas of
legal/regulatory compliance, recruitment and selection of personnel, performance and feedback mechanisms, and financial and benefits
compensation.
IDC1 - Foundations of Instructional Design - Foundations of Instructional Design provides an overview of how to select the most appropriate
learning theories, design processes, and instructional strategies based on learner audience, instructional setting, and current and desired state of
learning.
IYT2 - Introduction to Curriculum Theory - For over 200 years, educators in the United States have debated the purpose of education. Should
education be for enlightenment or to prepare students for the life of work? Should education be for many or for a select few? These questions continue
to be debated today. Through curriculum theory and reflection, educators have an educational framework by which to understand how theory and
one's philosophical views can impact the design, development, and implementation of curriculum and instruction. With this in mind, Introduction to
Curriculum Theory focuses on exploring and applying an understanding of Scholar Academic, Social Efficiency, Learner Centered, and Social
Reconstruction ideologies in various instructional settings and on the development on one’s own curriculum philosophy.
IZT2 - Learning Theories - Learning Theories focuses on the complexity of the current learning environment and how behaviorism, cognitivism,
constructivism, and personal learning philosophy can assist in the development of appropriate curriculum and instruction.
JIT2 - Risk Management - Content focuses on categorizing levels of risk and understanding how risk can impact the operations of the business
through a scenario involving the creation of a risk management program and business continuity program for a company and a business situation
reacting to a crisis/disaster situation affecting the company.
JNT2 - Instructional Design Analysis - Instructional Design Analysis focuses on using analysis of needs to determine the needs and interests of
learners, and scope and sequence for developing a logical approach for an education program to formulate appropriate and measurable program
objectives.
JOT2 - Issues in Instructional Design - Issues in Instructional Design focuses on learning theories, learner analysis, scope and sequence,
instructional strategies, task analysis and design theories, media and technology foundations, and adaptive technologies for special populations for
creating effective, well-articulated, and efficient instruction.
JPT2 - Instructional Design Production - Instructional Design Production focuses on the application of a systematic process of instructional design,
namely the concepts and procedure for analyzing and designing successful instruction. This course will prepare students to conduct a goal analysis, a
process used to identify instructional goals, as well as a task analysis, which is used to determine the skills and knowledge required to accomplish
those goals. This course also focuses on writing performance objectives, designing assessments, and developing instruction that incorporates relevant
learning theories. Methods for formatively evaluating a unit of instruction are also introduced. There are no prerequisites for this course.
JQT2 - Issues in Measurement and Evaluation - Issues in Measurement and Evaluation focuses on the understanding of formative and summative
evaluation, quantitative and qualitative data collection tools, including rubrics and the processes of evaluation.
JRT2 - Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation - Evaluation Methodology and Instrumentation focuses on using qualitative and quantitative
data collection tools and techniques to construct and evaluate valid and reliable measuring instruments.
JST2 - Evaluation Process and Recommendation - Evaluation Process and Recommendation focuses on implementing and interpreting an
evaluation and the reporting of the results and recommendations to stakeholders.
JWT2 - Instructional Theory - Instructional Theory focuses on exploring instructional design theory and related models and processes. Students will
apply instructional design principles to the design and delivery of plans to meet the learning needs found in the instructional setting.
JXT2 - Educational Psychology - Educational Psychology examines the latest findings in child and adolescent development and provides educators
the opportunity to apply educational psychology to various instructional settings. Students will explore the areas of applied educational psychology to
teaching, cognitive development, social development, and cultural development. They will design, develop, modify, and evaluate curriculum and
instruction in various educational settings according to child/adolescent development.
JYT2 - Curriculum Design - Curriculum Design focuses on exploring curriculum design theory, educational standards, and design frameworks for
what to teach. Together these topics will provide educators with the ability to take principles of curriculum design theory and related models and apply
them when developing, designing, and modifying curriculum to meet learning needs in their instructional setting.
JZT2 - Curriculum Evaluation - Curriculum Evaluation focuses on exploring evaluation systems and student data to determine the effectiveness of
curriculum. It also focuses on differentiating curriculum based on student data.
KAT2 - Assessment for Student Learning - Assessment for Student Learning focuses on developing the knowledge and skills to identify, develop,
and design instrument tools for evaluating student learning. It also explores the use of objective and performance-based, formative, and summative
assessments and their results in the evaluation of curriculum and instruction for student learning.
KBT2 - Differentiated Instruction - Differentiated Instruction focuses on developing and implementing curriculum and instruction that that best meets
the needs of all learners within a given instructional setting.
LEC1 - Comprehensive Educational Leadership Integration - You will complete a comprehensive objective proctored assessment in Educational
Leadership theory and practices, including administrative theory, school law, school finance, curriculum development and implementation, personnel
management, public relations, and technology. You will be required to pass the Comprehensive Educational Leadership Integration objective
assessment.
LFT1 - Student, Stakeholder, and Market Focus for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews principles and practices of meeting
stakeholder needs and reviews your case study site’s effectiveness in managing stakeholder relationships.
LMT1 - Measurement, Analysis, and Knowledge Management for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews principles and practices of
program and curriculum effectiveness evaluation as well as best practices in technology for educational leaders. You also complete a program,
practice, or curriculum effectiveness evaluation in your case study site as well as an evaluation of technology implementation.
LNT1 - Process Management for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews best practices in process management for educational leaders, as
well as an evaluation of your case study site’s process management policies and practices.
LPA1 - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition focuses on describing and understanding
language and the development of language. It includes the study of acquisition theory, grammar, and applied phonetics.
LPT1 - Performance Excellence Criteria for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews the case study model and prepares you to complete a
thorough review of the effectiveness of their case study site’s operations, outcomes, and leadership.
LQT2 - Information Security and Assurance Capstone Project - Students will be able to choose from three areas of emphasis, depending on
personal and professional interests. Students will complete a capstone project that deals with a significant real-world business problem that further
integrates the components of the degree. Capstone
projects will require an oral defense before a committee of WGU faculty.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 176
LRT1 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Foundational Perspectives of Education includes a series of performance tasks to take place under
the leadership of a practicing state licensed school principal or assistant principal in a practicum school site (K–12). This assessment also includes
completion of assigned administrative duties to take place in both elementary (K–6) and secondary (7–12) settings under the leadership and
supervision of the cooperating administrator in your case study school site. Practicum requirements vary by state of intended licensure and WGU
program requirements, and the standard has been set between 275 and 540 of logged practicum activities that span a minimum of six consecutive
months. Please refer back to the WGU Student Handbook for reference of your program requirements. You are required to pass the Practicum in
Educational Leadership performance assessments and successfully submit other documentation, including evaluations of your performance
completed by the cooperating administrator and documentation of completion of state-required hours of assigned administrative duties. The
Educational Leadership Practicum requires a practicum fee. During the Educational Leadership Practicum, you are also expected to take and pass
your state's licensure examination(s) required for certification as a school principal and the PRAXIS 5411 Educational Leadership: Administration and
Supervision exam.
LST1 - Strategic Planning for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews principles and practices of the strategic planning process as well as a
case study review of the strategic planning processes in your case study site.
LWT1 - Workforce Focus for Educational Leaders - This subdomain reviews best practices in human resource administration for educational
leaders, as well as an evaluation of your case study site’s workforce management practices.
LZT2 - Power, Influence and Leadership - This course focuses on the development of the critical leadership and soft skills necessary for success in
information technology leadership and management. The course focuses specifically on skills such as cultivating effective leadership communication,
building personal influence, enhancing emotional intelligence (soft skills), generating ideas and encouraging idea generation in others, conflict
resolution, and positioning oneself as an influential change agent within different organizational cultures.
MAT2 - Information Technology Management - This course will prepare students to cope with information technology resources in a manner
beneficial to their company. Such skill includes estimating both the cost and value of IT to the company, setting priorities for project selection,
management of IT projects, and handling risk. These responsibilities imply an ability to align technology with an organization’s strategic goals. In total,
students will develop the ability to effectively administer and manage current and emerging technologies within an organization.
MBT2 - Technological Globalization - This course is designed to equip students to better understand the fundamental, galvanizing and
transformational role of advanced IT communications, networks and services in all major industries; advanced IT is an unparalleled force multiplier in
scientific research, energy production and use, health and medicine. IT is a critical resource in the global community, economically, socially, politically
and culturally.
MCT2 - Technical Writing - As IT professionals are frequently required to interface with customers, clients, other departments, organizational leaders,
and even other institutions, strong communication skills are vital. In this course, students learn to communicate accurately, effectively, and ethically to
a variety of audiences. Students design communication to fit oral, print, and multi-media contexts. They develop rhetorical sensitivity in both their
writing and their design decisions.
MEC1 - Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation - Foundations of Measurement and Evaluation focuses on assessment validity, constructing
reliable test instruments, identifying appropriate item and instrument types, qualitative data collection tools and techniques, and conducting a formative
and summative evaluation for an instruction product or program.
MFT2 - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense: Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Defense focuses on a
formal presentation. The student will present an overview of their teacher work sample (TWS) portfolio discussing the challenges they faced and how
they determined whether their goals were accomplished. They will explain the process they went through to develop the TWS portfolio and reflect on
the methodologies and outcomes of the strategies discussed in the TWS portfolio. Additionally, they will discuss the strengths and weaknesses of
those strategies and how they can apply what they learned from the TWS portfolio in their professional work environment.
MGT2 - IT Project Management - IT Project Management provides an overview of the Project Management Institute’s project management
methodology. Topics cover various process groups and knowledge areas and application of knowledge in case studies for planning a project that has
not started yet and monitoring/controlling a project that is already underway.
MMT2 - IT Strategic Solutions - In IT Strategic Solutions the learner will have the opportunity to identify strategic opportunities and emerging
technologies as they research and decide on a system to support a growing company. Topics will include technology strategy; gap analysis;
researching new technology; strengths, opportunities, weaknesses, and threats; ethics; risk mitigation; data security, communication plans; and
globalization.
NBT1 - Classroom Management, Engagement, and Motivation - Students will learn the foundations for effective classroom management as well as
strategies for creating a safe, positive learning environment for all learners. Students will be introduced to systems that promote student self-
awareness, self-management, self-efficacy, and self-esteem.
NHC1 - Introduction to Instructional Planning and Presentation - Students will develop a basic understanding of effective instructional principles
and how to differentiate instruction in order to elicit powerful teaching in the classroom.
NMA1 - Professional Role of the ELL Teacher - The Professional Role of the ELL Teacher focuses on issues of professionalism for the English
Language Learning teacher and leader. This includes program development, ethics, engagement in professional organizations, serving as a resource,
and ELL advocacy.
NNA1 - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction focuses on a variety of philosophies and
grade levels of English Language Learner (ELL) instruction. It includes the study of ELL listening and speaking, ELL reading and writing, specially
designed academic instruction in English (SDAIE), and specific issues for various grade level instruction.
OOT2 - Mathematics History and Technology - Mathematics History and Technology introduces a variety of technological tools for doing
mathematics, and you will develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. You will come to understand that
mathematics is a very human subject that comes from the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change, as well as the micro-level actions of
individuals with personal, professional, and philosophical motivations. Most importantly, you will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and
historical information to create an enriching student-centered mathematical learning environment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
OPT2 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help you develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
become a prospective and practicing educator. You will be able to use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the learning of
mathematics. This course focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and instructional planning, with methods based on
research and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an
effective secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
ORT2 - Science Teaching and Learning - This course focuses on how to teach science and on preparing preservice science educators to teach
science in a way that is accurate, current and engaging. Topics include models for teaching science through inquiry, evaluation of alignment to
standards, effective use of learning communities, formative assessment strategies, and safety responsibilities.
PFHM - Business - HR Management Portfolio Requirement - Students prepare a culminating professional portfolio to demonstrate the
competencies they have learned throughout their program. The portfolio includes a strengths essay, a career report, a reflection essay, a résumé, and
exhibits demonstrating personal strengths in the work place.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 177
PFIT - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement is designed to help the learner
complete the culminating Undergraduate Business Portfolio assessment; it focuses on developing a business portfolio containing a strengths essay, a
career report, a reflection essay, a resume, and exhibits that support one’s strengths in the work place.
QDT1 - Abstract Algebra - Abstract Algebra is the axiomatic and rigorous study of the underlying structure of algebra and arithmetic. It covers the
knowledge and skills necessary to understand, apply, and prove theorems about numbers, groups, rings, and fields. Topics include the well-ordering
principle, equivalence classes, the division algorithm, Euclid's algorithm, prime factorization, greatest common divisor, least common multiple,
congruence, the Chinese remainder theorem, modular arithmetic, rings, integral domains, fields, groups, roots of unity, and homomorphisms. Linear
Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
QDT2 - Abstract Algebra - Abstract Algebra is the axiomatic and rigorous study of the underlying structure of algebra and arithmetic. It covers the
knowledge and skills necessary to understand, apply, and prove theorems about numbers, groups, rings, and fields. Topics include the well-ordering
principle, equivalence classes, the division algorithm, Euclid's algorithm, prime factorization, greatest common divisor, least common multiple,
congruence, the Chinese remainder theorem, modular arithmetic, rings, integral domains, fields, groups, roots of unity, and homomorphisms. Linear
Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
QET1 - Business - HR Management Capstone Project - For the Business - HR Management Capstone Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that offers HR products or services. The business plan includes a
market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to the chosen company.
QFT1 - Business - IT Management Capstone Project - The capstone requires students to demonstrate the integration and synthesis of
competencies in all domains required for the degree in Information Technology Management. The student produces a business plan for a start-up
company that is selected and approved by the student and mentor.
QGT1 - Business Management Capstone Written Project - For the Business Management Capstone Written Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that plans to sell a product or service in a local market, national
market, or on the Internet. The business plan includes a market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to
the chosen company.
QHT1 - Business Management Tasks - Business Management Tasks addresses important concepts needed to effectively manage a
business. Topics include the cost-quality relationship, the use of various types of graphical charts in operations management, managing innovation,
and developing strategies for working with individuals and groups.
QIT1 - Business Marketing Management Capstone Written Project - For the Business Marketing Management Capstone Project students will
integrate and synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their
chosen professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that provides some type of marketing product or service. The
business plan includes a market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to the chosen company.
QJT2 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use
differential calculus of one variable and appropriate technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains
and ranges; limits, continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and
sum rules applied to polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Candidates should have completed a course in
Pre-Calculus before engaging in this course.
QQT1 - Earth and Space Science - This course provides a broad overview of the basic concepts in astronomy, geology, meteorology, and
oceanography.
QQT2 - Earth and Space Science - This course provides a broad overview of the basic concepts in astronomy, geology, meteorology, and
oceanography.
QTT2 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of
operations; ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets
of real numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, trees and networks, and permutation and combination. There are no prerequisites for this course.
RJT1 - Principles of Biology - In this course, key elements of biology, from the molecular level to ecosystems, are explored. Specifically, students
are introduced to the macromolecules and cellular biology as well as genetics and the link to evolution. Students learn about plant and animal
organismal biology, including how organisms interact with the environment. Additional important topics in ecology, such as population and community
ecology and the effect of humans on the biosphere are also covered.
RJT2 - Principles of Biology - In this course, key elements of biology, from the molecular level to ecosystems, are explored. Specifically, students
are introduced to the macromolecules and cellular biology as well as genetics and the link to evolution. Students learn about plant and animal
organismal biology, including how organisms interact with the environment. Additional important topics in ecology, such as population and community
ecology and the effect of humans on the biosphere are also covered.
RKT1 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use appropriate technology to
model and solve real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector
representation Ax=b, row reduction, linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection), matrix operations,
matrix inverses and invertible matrix characterizations, computing determinants, relating determinants to area and volume, and axiomatic and intuitive
definitions of vector spaces and subspaces and how to prove theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus III are prerequisites for this
course.
RKT2 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use appropriate technology to
model and solve real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector
representation Ax=b, row reduction, linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection), matrix operations,
matrix inverses and invertible matrix characterizations, computing determinants, relating determinants to area and volume, and axiomatic and intuitive
definitions of vector spaces and subspaces and how to prove theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus III are prerequisites for this
course.
RNT1 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics,
and electricity and magnetism and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
RNT2 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics,
and electricity and magnetism and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 178
ROT2 - Pre-Calculus - Pre-Calculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex numbers, systems of equations,
vectors and matrices, sequence and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include degrees; radians
and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming trigonometric functions and their inverses; solving
trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar approaches to complex numbers; DeMoivre's
Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations; systems of inequalities; and arithmetic and
geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
RXT2 - Precalculus and Calculus - Precalculus and Calculus provides instruction in precalculus and calculus and applies them to examples found in
both mathematics and science. Topics in precalculus include principles of trigonometry, mathematical modeling, and logarithmic, exponential,
polynomial, and rational functions. Topics in calculus include conceptual knowledge of limit, continuity, differentiability, and integration.
SJT2 - Advanced Networking Technology - This course prepares students to support the ever growing interconnectivity needs of organizations.
Students will learn about advanced networking concepts, devices and strategies to provide superior network connectivity to organizations. A review of
common yet critical network devices and technologies will be provided such as switches, routers, hubs, firewalls, T-1s, ATM, fiber and others.
Students will also be prepared to review existing network environments and provide specifications to upgrade and enhance such networks.
SLO1 - Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar - Theories of Second Language Learning Acquisition and Grammar covers
content material in applied linguistics, including morphology, syntax, semantics, and grammar. Students will explore the role of dialect in the
classroom, the connections between language and culture, and the theories of first and second language acquisition.
SPT2 - Social Science Pedagogy - This course helps students develop the knowledge and skills required as a beginning teacher of social studies in
a secondary school. The activities help students develop the knowledge about planning and teaching social studies lessons and assessing the
academic progress of
secondary school students in social studies.
SRT1 - Calculus III and Analysis - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and
skills necessary to apply calculus of multiple variables and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include infinite
series and convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating); power series; Taylor polynomials; vectors, lines and planes in three
dimensions; dot and cross products; multivariable functions, limits, and continuity; partial derivatives; directional derivatives; gradients; tangent planes;
normal lines; and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
SRT2 - Calculus III and Analysis - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and
skills necessary to apply calculus of multiple variables and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include infinite
series and convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating); power series; Taylor polynomials; vectors, lines and planes in three
dimensions; dot and cross products; multivariable functions, limits, and continuity; partial derivatives; directional derivatives; gradients; tangent planes;
normal lines; and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
TAT2 - Technology Production - Technology Production focuses on the foundations of media and technology, integrated technology development,
and the integration of technology into appropriate instructional uses of productivity, and applying different research applications in the learning
environment.
TDT1 - Technology Design Portfolio - Technology Design Portfolio focuses on gaining a broad overview of the field of technology integration with a
fundamental understanding of some key concepts and principles, and enhancing technology skills to enable the producing of exportable instructional
and professional products using various integrated application programs.
TET1 - Issues in Technology Integration - Issues in Technology Integration focuses on the legal and ethical practice of technology, some personal
uses of electronic resources, the need for protection of information, the foundations of media and technology, what electronic learning communities
are, and the adaptive technologies for special populations.
TFT2 - Cyberlaw, Regulations, and Compliance - Cyberlaw, Regulations and Compliance prepares students to participate in legal analysis of
relevant cyberlaws and address governance, standards, policies, and legislation. Students will conduct a security risk analysis for an enterprise
system. In addition, students will determine cyber requirements for third‐party vendor agreements. Students will also evaluate provisions of both the
2001 and 2006 USA PATRIOT Acts.
TOC2 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data. Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this
course.
TQC1 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data. Topics include discrete and continuous random variables, expected values, the Central Limit Theorem, the
identification of unusual samples, population parameters, point estimates, confidence intervals, influences on accuracy and precision, hypothesis
testing and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion, one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation).
Probability and Statistics I is a prerequisite for this course.
TQC2 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data. Topics include discrete and continuous random variables, expected values, the Central Limit Theorem, the
identification of unusual samples, population parameters, point estimates, confidence intervals, influences on accuracy and precision, hypothesis
testing and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion, one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation).
Probability and Statistics I is a prerequisite for this course.
TSC2 - General Chemistry I - In this course students will attain a solid understanding of fundamental chemistry concepts and a reasonable ability to
solve chemical problems. Topics include measurement, elements and compounds, properties of matter and energy, the periodic table and chemical
nomenclature, quantities in chemistry, chemical reactions, the modern atomic theory, and the chemical bond. Laboratory work focuses on using
effective laboratory techniques to examine the physical and chemical characteristics of matter.
TSP1 - General Chemistry Laboratory I - In this course students will attain a solid understanding of fundamental chemistry concepts and a
reasonable ability to solve chemical problems. Topics include measurement, elements and compounds, properties of matter and energy, the periodic
table and chemical nomenclature, quantities in chemistry, chemical reactions, the modern atomic theory, and the chemical bond. Laboratory work
focuses on using effective laboratory techniques to examine the physical and chemical characteristics of matter.
TSP2 - General Chemistry Laboratory I - In this course students will attain a solid understanding of fundamental chemistry concepts and a
reasonable ability to solve chemical problems. Topics include measurement, elements and compounds, properties of matter and energy, the periodic
table and chemical nomenclature,
quantities in chemistry, chemical reactions, the modern atomic theory, and the chemical bond. Laboratory work focuses on using effective laboratory
techniques to examine the physical and chemical characteristics of matter.
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 179
TUC2 - General Chemistry II - In this course students will attain a solid understanding of fundamental chemistry concepts and a reasonable ability to
solve chemical problems. Topics include the gaseous state, the solid and liquid states, aqueous solutions, acid-base models, oxidation-reduction
reactions, reaction rates and equilibrium, nuclear chemistry, organic chemistry, and biochemistry. Laboratory work focuses on using effective
laboratory techniques to analyze chemical processes in real-world contexts.
TUP1 - General Chemistry Laboratory II - In this course students will attain a solid understanding of fundamental chemistry concepts and a
reasonable ability to solve chemical problems. Topics include the gaseous state, the solid and liquid states, aqueous solutions, acid-base models,
oxidation-reduction reactions, reaction rates and equilibrium, nuclear chemistry, organic chemistry, and biochemistry. Laboratory work focuses on
using effective laboratory techniques to analyze chemical processes in real-world contexts.
TUP2 - General Chemistry Laboratory II - In this course students will attain a solid understanding of fundamental chemistry concepts and a
reasonable ability to solve chemical problems. Topics include the gaseous state, the solid and liquid states, aqueous solutions, acid-base models,
oxidation-reduction reactions, reaction rates and equilibrium, nuclear chemistry, organic chemistry, and biochemistry. Laboratory work focuses on
using effective laboratory techniques to analyze chemical processes in real-world contexts.
TVT2 - Governance, Finance, Law, and Leadership for Principals - This subdomain contains content in educational law, finance, and
administration as well as a case study review of your site’s leadership practices.
UFC1 - Managerial Accounting - This course focuses on identifying, gathering, and interpreting information that will be used for evaluating and
managing the performance of a business. Students will also study cost measurement for producing goods and services and how to analyze and
control these costs.
UQT1 - Organic Chemistry - This course focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize and
group these compounds based on common bonds found within them in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity.
VCT2 - Teacher Work Sample in Mathematics - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned during your time
in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of your content,
planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
VFT2 - Teacher Work Sample in Science - The Teacher Work Sample in Science is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned during your
time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of your content,
planning, instructional, and
reflective skills in this professional assessment.
VLT2 - Security Policies and Standards - Best Practices - This course focuses on the practices of planning and implementing organization-wide
security and assurance initiatives as well as auditing assurance processes.
VYC1 - Principles of Accounting - Principles of Accounting focuses on ways in which accounting principles are used in business operations.
Students will learn about the basics of accounting, including how to use Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), ledgers, and journals.
Students will also be introduced to the steps of the accounting cycle, concepts of assets and liabilities, and general information about accounting
information systems. This course also presents bank reconciliation methods, balance sheets, and business ethics.
VZT1 - Marketing Applications - Marketing Applications allows students to apply their knowledge of core marketing principles by creating a
comprehensive marketing plan. Their plan will apply their knowledge of the marketing planning process, market analysis, and the marketing mix
(product, place, promotion, and price).
© Western Governors University 4/28/17 180
Course Mentor Directory
General Education
Adams, William; M.A., Savanah College of Art and Design
Aguirre, Jennifer; M.S., Walden University
Akens, Jonne; Ph. D., Texas A&M University
Alexander, Ledora; Ed.S., Walden University
Ashe, James; Ph.D., University of Tennessee
Barnes, Lauri; Ph.D., Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Baty, Amanda; Ph.D., Texas Tech University
Benson, Bryan; Ph.D., Boston College
Bilbrey, Joshua; Ph.D., Texas State University
Borden, Anne; Ph.D., Emory University
Brewer, Craig: Ph.D., University of Notre Dame
Brown, Bonnie; Ph.D., Stephen F. Austin State University
Browning, Ellen; Ph.D., University of Texas, Arlington
Buchanan, Tenielle; Ed.D., Lipscomb University
Byrnes, Sean; Ph.D., Emory University
Carmona, Karla; M.S., Western Governors University
Castaneda, Gilivaldo; M.Ed., University of Texas at San Antonio
Chaves Ulloa, Ramsa; Ph.D., Dartmouth College
Chittick, Sharla; Ph.D., University of Stirling
Condit, Lorna; Ph.D., University of Missouri
Cowan, Christy; Ph.D., University of South Carolina
Crawford, Nathan; Ph.D., University of Tennessee-Knoxville
Crooks, Kathleen; Ph.D., University of Akron
Cross, Cameron; M.S., Kaplan University
Cureton, Sara; M.A., Gonzaga Univeristy
Cutler, Ned; Ph.D., Duke University
Dodge, Joshua; M.A., University of Central Florida
Dorre, Gina; Ph.D., Tulane University
Douglas, Katherine; M.A., University of California, San Diego
Duff, Kandi; Ed.D., Idaho State University
Dungar, Michael; MA, Boston College
Edmunds, Jeffrey; Ph.D., University of Arizona
Evans, Robin; Ph.D., Oklahoma State University
Evenson Newhouse, Ranae; Ph.D., Vanderbilt University
Faucett, Jessica; Ph.D., Texas Tech University
Fehnel, Bradley; M.S., University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Fellow, Jill; M.S., Brigham Young University
Franco, Heidi; Ph.D., University of Utah
Frusciante, Denise; Ph.D., University of Miami
Galindez, Dahlia; MA, Western Governors University
Gangaram, Jitendra; Ph.D., North Central University
Garrett, Janette; MBA, University of Phoenix
Goodwin, Rachel; Ph.D., University of Texas
Gordon, Kelley; Ph.D., Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Gravitte, Kristen; Ph.D., University of Tulsa
Gradzielewski, Andrew; Ph.D., University of Washington
Halula, Stephen; Ph.D., Marquette University
Harris, Steven; Ph.D., Indiana University
Hartwick, Andromeda; Ph.D., University of Michigan
Hayne, Victoria; Ph.D., University of California - Los Angeles
Hernandez, Ali; Ph.D., Benedictine University
Hillyer, Aaron; Ph.D., University of Nebraska
Horne, Lisa; M.A., Brigham Young University
Hurley, Norman; Ph.D., University of Illinois
Jensen, Taylor; Ph.D., Montana State University
Johnson, Stephanie; MBA, Lindenwood University
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 181
Jones, Lee; Ph.D., Clark Atlanta University
Kelley, Matthew; Ph.D., University of Nevada-Las Vegas
Kelly, Lynn; Ed.D., Argosy University
Knieps, Linda; Ph.D., Vanderbilt University
Knous, Helen; Ph.D., Texas A&M University-Commerce
Landry, Stan; Ph.D., University of Arizona
Latham, Kary; Ph.D., University of Tennessee
Lauren, Jennifer; Ph.D., Duquesne University
Leep, Matthew; Ph.D., University of Connecticut
Lettau, Lisa; Ph.D., University of Delaware
Little, David; Ph.D., University of Kentucky
Lukin, Kara; Ph.D., University of Colorado
Main, Daniel; Ph.D., University of Colorado
Mammen, John; Ed.D., University of Phoenix
Mantooth, Stacy; Ph. D., University of Nevada – Las Vegas
Martin, Jonathan; M.A., West Virginia University
Mays, Ashley; Ph.D., University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
McCune, Timothy; Ph.D., Youngstown State University
McWatters, Mason; Ph.D., University of Texas at Austin
Metoki, Kiyoko; Ph.D., University of Kansas
Meyer, Nicholas; Ph.D., Southern Illinois University
Miller, Don; Ph.D., Morehouse School of Medicine
Miller, Kathleen; Ph.D., University of Delaware
Moody, Vivian; Ph.D., University of Georgia
Mosgrove, Sharon; Ph.D., University of Iowa
Moss, Meg; Ph.D., University of Tennessee-Knoxville
Mzoughi, Taha; Ph.D., University of South Carolina
Nelson, Angela; Ph.D., Cornell University
Nicley, Erinn; M.S., Florida State University
Norton, Cindy; Ed.D., Grand Canyon University
Olson, Nels; Ph.D., Michigan State University
Oulette, David; Ph.D., Virginia Commonwealth University
Palmer, Michael; M.F.A., University of Utah
Pankowski, Peg; Ed.D., Duquesne University
Parrish, Anca; Ph.D., University of Memphis
Parton, Sabrena; Ph.D., University of Southern Mississippi
Parvin, Kathleen; Ph.D., Purdue University
Peppers, Shelitha; Ed.D., Maryville University
Perkins, Heidi; M.S., Excelsior College
Phillips, Dedra; M.A., Colorado Technical University
Potter, Christine; Ph.D., University of Iowa
Quintela, Melissa; Ph.D., Indiana University
Radosavljevic, Alexander; Ph.D., University of Illinois at Chicago
Redden, Cameron; MAT, Baldwin Wallace University
Redkey, Elizabeth; Ph.D., University at Albany, State University of New York
Remington, Theodore; Ph.D., University of Iowa
Rhodes, Kristofer; Ph.D., University of California-Irvine
Robinson, Ami; Ph.D., Southern Illinois University
Robinson, Jeffery; Ph.D., Drew University
Rosenblatt, Heather; Ph.D., Ohio State University
Rossi, Cynthia; Ph.D., University of Maryland
Saddler, Derrick; Ph.D., University of South Florida
Sanchez, Melvin; Ph.D., University of California-Irvine
Scheg, Abigail; Ph.D., Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Scheib, Douglas; Ph.D., University of Miami
Scotece, Shannon; Ph.D., State University of New York - Albany
Shahi, Kimberley; Ph.D., University of Texas at Arlington
Sharpe, Robert; Ph.D., University of South Carolina
Shimotsu-Dariol, Stephanie; Ph.D., West Virginia University
Simeon, Patricia; Ed.D., Grambling State University
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 182
Simmons, Nathaniel; Ph.D., Ohio University
Smith, Tommie; MBA, Middle Tennessee State University
Springfield, Derriell; Ed.D., East Tennessee State University
St Martin, Ashley; M.S., University of Vermont
Stambaugh, Nathaniel; Ph.D., Brandeis University
Starr, Neil; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Timmer, Kristin; Ph.D., University of Tennessee Health Science Center
Tolin Schultz, Alexandra; Ph.D., Stony Brook University
Tucker, Diana; Ph.D., Southern Illinois University Carbondale
Tweedy, Joanna; Ph.D., Benedictine University
Verber, Jason; Ph.D., University of Iowa
Vida, Anna; M.A., Arizona State University
Walker, Hope; M.A., The American University
Weaver, Matthew; Ph.D., Washington State University
Webb, James; M.A., Pacific University
Wellinghoff, Lisa; Ph.D., University of Tulsa
Westmoreland, Brandi; Ph.D., Texas A&M University-Commerce
Whitson-Whennen, Tonya; M.M., University of Utah
Woolridge, Mary; Ph.D., University of Central Florida
Young, Michael; Ph.D., University of Missouri at Saint Louis
Zasadny, Jill; Ph.D., Kansas University
Teachers College
Aafif, Amal; Ph.D., Drexel University
Affleck, Alisa; M.A., Western Governors University
Allen, Elizabeth; Ed.D., Argosy University
Aranda, Christina; M.A., University of Utah
Aufderhaar, Carolyn; Ed.D., University of Cincinnati
Baxter, Marissa; Ph.D., Southern Illinois University
Belchik-Moser, Sara; Ph.D., Washington State University
Betts, Anastasia; Ph.D., Regent University
Blanks, Dorothy; Ph.D., University of Tennessee
Boen, Laurie; Ph.D., University of Arkansas
Boyd-Bradwell, Natasha; Ph.D., Capella University
Branan, Daniel; Ph.D., University of Denver
Branch, Leah; Ed.D., Bethel University
Brogan, Lynn; Ed.D., Columbia University
Brooks, Marlaina; Ed.D., Texas A&M University-Commerce
Calero, Lisa; Ph.D., Capella University
Carey, Kimberly; Ph.D., Old Dominion University
Cartwright, Nancy; Ph.D., Gonzaga University
Cohen, Kimberley; Ph.D., University of Iowa
Constanza, Michele; Ph.D., University of Kansas
Covey, Nicole; Ed.D., University of Memphis
Douglas, Deanna; Ph.D., Wichita State University
Dove, Teresa; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Dukes, Debra; Ed.D., University of Georgia
Durakiewicz, Anna; M.S., University of Marie Curie
Eisenhour, Melanie; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Feng, Suiping; Ph.D., City University of New York
Fillpot, Elsie; Ph.D., University of Iowa
Flavin, Kathryn; Ph.D., University of Illinois
Flores, Alberto; Ed.D., Grand Canyon University
Francis, David; M.A., Western Governors University
Giddens, Evelyn; Ph.D., Capella University
Gillman, Brenna; Ph.D., University of Utah
Gray-Dowdy, Audra; Ph.D., University of Washington
Hall, Robert; Ph.D., Capella University
Halverson, Colleen; Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Harbin, Lesley; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 183
Hardin, Bridgette; Ed.D., Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Hedman, Shawn; Ph.D., University of Illinois at Chicago
Henry, Joanna; M.E., Lamar University
Hernandez, Julie; Ed.D., University of Phoenix
Hiebel, Adam; Ed.D., Ohio University
Hudon-Miller, Sarah; Ph.D., Purdue University
Hughes, Amy; Ed.D., University of Montana
Hutson, Tommye; Ed.D., Baylor University
Igbinoba-Cummings, Monique; Ph.D., Lynn University
Izumi, Alisa; Ed.D., University of Massachusetts
Jacobs, Patricia; Ph.D., University of Florida
Janitzki, Dean; M.A., University of Toledo
Johnson, Sherri; Ph.D., Capella University
Jovic, Marko; Ph.D., University of Nebraska
Kain, Meri; Ed.D., University of Missouri
Kelly, Gretchen; Ed.D., Walden University
Leinbach, William; Ed.D., Oregon State University
Lindemann, Steven; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Linkenhoker, Dina; Ed.D., Liberty University
Lipscomb, Pauline; Ed.D., University of the Cumberlands
Luster, Sandricia; Ed.S., Argosy University
McCarver, Patricia; Ph.D., California Institute of Integral Studies
McDaniel, Maryann; Ed.D., University of Houston
McGrath Hovland, Michelle; Ed.D., University of South Dakota
Mendes, John; Ed.D., Argosy University
Miller, Esther; Ph.D., Lehigh University
Mills, Ginger; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Moore, Tontaleya; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Morgan, Matthew; Ph.D., Montana State University
Mour, Jennifer; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Murray, Mary; Ph.D., Florida Atlantic University
Obianyo, Obiamaka; Ph.D., University of South Carolina
Odom, M. Katherine; Ph.D., University of South Alabama
O’Malley, Maureen; Ph.D., University of Arizona
Pack, Mamie; Ph.D., Capella University
Parry, Kelly; Ph.D., University of North Texas
Purnell, Courtney; Ph.D., Florida Atlantic University
Quinn, Lori; M.A.Ed., Prairie View A&M University
Rahsaz, Jacqueline; M.A., University of California San Diego
Randonis, Jennifer; Ph.D., Arizona State University
Rawson, Robert; Ph.D., University of Texas Southwestern
Richen, Damara; Ed.D., Fielding Graduate University
Robles, Veronica; Ed.D., Arizona State University
Rogers, Carmelle; Ph.D., Kansas State University
Russell-Fry, Nancy; Ph.D., Ohio University
Scales, Rebecca; M.A., Western Governors University
Schmidt, Stan; Ph.D., Brigham Young University
Sepetys, Peggy; Ed.D., University of Michigan
Shrader, Vincent; Ph.D., Brigham Young University
Silver, Jennifer; Ph.D., New York University
Sims, Rachel; Ed.D., Walden University
Smith, Janeal; Ph.D., Walden University
Spencer, Kristin; Ph.D., University of Florida
Story, Colleen; Ph.D., Capella University
Swenson, Karl; Ph.D., Indiana University
Thompson, Julie; Ph.D., University of Rochester
Traub-Metlay, Suzanne; Ph.D., University of Pittsburg
Tresnak, Robyn; Ph.D., Walden University
Turner, Carmen; Ph.D., University of Memphis
Vickers, Paul; Ed.D., Stephen F. Austin State University
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 184
Walter-Sullivan, Earnestyne; Ph.D., Texas A&M University
Weinstein, Gideon; Ph.D., Indiana University Bloomington
Whitmire, Jane; Ph.D., University of Montana
Willey-Rendon, Ruby; Ph.D., Texas Tech University
Williams, Lacey; Ed.D., Union Institute and University
Wisnosky, Marc; Ph.D., University of Pittsburgh
Yanusheva, Lidiya; Ed.D., Walden University
Yatherajam, Gayatri; Ph.D., Colorado State University
Zartman, Krista; Ph.D., Purdue University
Zimmerli, Mandy; Ph.D., Iowa State University
College of Business
Abubakari, Nina; J.D., Wayne State University
Adler, Kathleen; Ph.D., Southern Methodist University
Alafita, Theresa; Ph.D., George Washington University
Arenz, Russell; Ph.D., Colorado Technical University
Argiento, Steven; J.D., Pace University
Austin, Judy; MBA, Western Governors University
Baragoshi, Behroz; Ph.D., University of Utah
Barton, Robert; Ed.S., Utah State University
Black, Hilda; Ph.D., Louisiana Tech University
Borch, Casey; Ph.D., University of Connecticut
Boysen-Rotelli, Sheila; Ph.D., Benedictine University
Brownstein, Steven; Ph.D., Arizona State University
Carson, Pook; Ph.D., University of Utah
Cassell, Kenneth; MBA, San Jose State University
Cherry, Patricia; Ph.D., Capella University
Clarke, Jeffrey; Ph.D., University of California-Los Angeles
Connor, Martin; J.D., University of North Dakota
Davis, Lorretta; Ph.D., Capella University
Davis, Mary; Ed.D., Central Michigan University
Doctorman, Lindsey; Ph.D., Colorado State University
Doren, Andrew; D.M., University of Maryland
Dula, Kimberly; Ph.D., Mercer University
Duran, Anthony; DBA, Grand Canyon University
Ennis, Erica; J.D., Quinnipiac University
Etter, Edwin; Ph.D., Ohio State University
Feehery, George; DBA, Nova Southeastern University
Fisher, Paul; Ph.D., Oregon State University
Gallo, Merry; DBA, Argosy University
Garland, Jennifer; DBA, Keiser University
Geddes, Bruce; Ph.D., Capella University
Gilyot, Bianca; MBA, Northcentral University
Giscombe, Hilbert; DBA, Argosy University
Gough, Gregory; M.A., University of Phoenix
Green, Maurice; Ph.D., University at Albany – State University of New York
Gunn, Linda; Ph.D., Union Institute and University
Havins, Merwin; Ed.D., Northern Arizona University
Heinzman, Joseph; DM, Colorado Technical University
Hon, Charles; Ph.D., Capella University
Hudson, Brandi; J.D., Regent University
Iannucci, Brian; Ph.D., Northcentral University
Imboden, Paul; DBA., Northcentral University
Jividen, Jim; J.D., Ohio Northern University
Jones, Alan; MBA, Dartmouth College
Justice, Jeanne; DBA, Walden University
Kale, Mrinalini; Ph.D., Capella University
Kenny, Timothy; M.S., Regis University
Kowalski, Christine; Ed.D., National Louis University
Kushniroff, Melinda; Ed.D., Liberty University
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 185
La Hay, Ann; Ed.D., University of Houston
Lagroue, Harold; Ph.D., Louisiana State University
Lamer, Maryann; Ph.D., Oklahoma State University
Langdon, Debra; MBA, Denver University
Lutter-Cooper, Victoria; Ph.D., Capella University
Marshall, Mario; Ph.D., Florida Atlantic University
McClesky, Jamie; Ph.D., Capella University
McNulty, Peggy; Ph.D., University of Colorado-Colorado Springs
Melton, Rebecca; Ph.D., Chicago School of Professional Psychology
Mills, Colleen; Ph.D., Capella University
Moore, Detria; J.D., Liberty University
Neely, Cecil; MBA, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Nelms, Linda; Ph.D., Capella University
Nelson, Camille; Ph.D., Gonzaga University
O’Brien, Joseph; Ed.D., George Washington University
Openshaw, Matthew; Ph.D., University of Texas at Dallas
Parish, Beth; Ed.D., Argosy University
Patterson, Julie; Ph.D., University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Pawarski, Richard; Ph.D., Northcentral University
Phillips, Patti; J.D., Stetson University
Pratt, Christopher; DHA, University of Phoenix
Raimo, Steve; DSL, Regent University
Richardson, Shay; DBA, Walden University
Roberts, Tracia; M.S., University of Phoenix
Roberts, Wade; Ph.D., University of Utah
Rogers, Katie; MBA, University of Utah
Sawant, Gauri; Ph.D., Lehigh University
Shah, Rob; MBA, DeVry University
Shepherd, Tracie; Ph.D., Northcentral University
Skinner, Susan; Ph.D., Tulane University
Snipes, Dawna; J.D., Western Michigan University
Souder, Michele; MBA, University of Dayton
Spicer, Ronald; Ph.D., Capella University
Stewart, Michelle; MBA, University of Phoenix
Strickland, Cynthia; Ph.D., Touro University International
Swarthout, Nanette; MBA, Fontbonne University
Tapp, Timothy; MHA, Washington University
Thomas, Melanie; J.D., University of North Carolina
Venkateswar, Sankaran; Ph.D., University of Georgia
Wachter, Eddie; Ph.D., Nova Southeastern University
Wade, Keith; MBA, University of Detroit
Walker, Natalie; DBA, Keiser University
Wang, Xiaofei; Ph.D., University of Kentucky
Williams, Pegeen; J.D., Quinnipiac University
Williams, Rian; MPA, University of Utah
Wood, Carrie; M.S., Strayer University
College of Information Technology
Al-Husaam, Abdul; Ph.D., Capella University
Alberici, Mary; Ph.D., University of Missouri-St. Louis
Allen, Candice; M.A., Capella University
Antonucci, Amy; M.S., University of Delaware
Banerjee, Pubali; Ph.D., Iowa State University
Beverley, Charles; Ph.D., University of South Carolina
Blanson, Constance; Ph.D., Capella University
Bojonny, John; M.S., Marywood University
Borsum, Pamela; MBA, Western Governors University
Campbell, Wendy; DBA, Northcentral University
Carter, Betty; M.S., Troy University
Cobbs, Dana; M.S., College of William and Mary
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 186
Cook, Henry; M.S., Clark Atlanta University
Crawford, Demetria; M.S., Boston University
Dupree, Yolanda; Ph.D., Nova Southeastern University
Farmer, Jaynee; M.A., University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Ferdinand, Jeff; M.S., Trident University International
Gardner, Diana; MBA, Western Governors University
Garza, Brian; M.S., Western Governors University
Goodwin, Orenthio; Ph.D., Capella University
Heiner, Jenny; M.S., Capitol College
Huff, David; Ph.D., Wayne State University
Jensen, Bryan; M.S., Bellvue University
Kercher, Paul; M.S., Missouri University of Science and Technology
LaMolinare, Deana; M.S., Duquesne University
Lang, Cythia; MSCHe, University of Maryland
Lavieri, Edward; DCS, Colorado Technical University
Light, Gerri; M.S., Walden University
Lively, Charles; Ph.D., Texas A&M University
McFarlane, Michele; M.S., DeVry University
McLaughlin, Mike; M.S., University of Maine
Mendell, Ronald; M.S., Capitol College
Milham, Thomas; MNCM, DeVry University
Moore, Ronald; M.A., Troy University
Morrill, Ralph; Ph.D., North Central University
Ntinglet-Davis, Emelda; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Ozmer, Connie; M.A., University of Phoenix
Paddock, Charles; Ph.D., University of Houston
Peterson, Michael; Ph.D., Capella University
Pinaire, Ken; MBA, University of Texas at Dallas
Rawlinson, David; J.D., South Texas College of Law
Schaefer, Brett; MBA, DeVry University
Shenk, Maria; M.S., City University of Seattle
Scutro, Rebecca; M.S., Saint Joseph’s University
Sewell, William; Ed.D., University of Houston
Sher-DeCusatis, Carolyn; M.A., State University of New York at Stony Brook
Shields, Jessica; MFA, Savannah College of Art and Design
Sistelos, Antonio; Ph.D., Indiana State University
Stromberg, Scott; M.S., Nova Southeastern University
Swanson, Tom; Ph.D., Capella University
Taylor, Julinda; M.S., Wichita State University
Travis, Susan; M.A., University of Phoenix
College of Health Professions
Abdur-Rahman, Veronica; Ph.D., Texas Woman’s University
Abee, Debra; M.S., University of North Carolina Greensboro
Abraham, Gail; MSN/ED, University of Phoenix
Adams, Lora; M.S., Michigan State University
Adkins, Dee; Ph.D., Nova Southeastern University
Allen, Juanita; DNP, University of Utah
Ashby, Shelley; DNP, University of Southern Indiana
Austgen, Donna; M.S., University of Indianapolis
Barber, Kendar; M.S., Indiana University
Battle, Linda; DNP, Regis College
Benoit, Heidi; M.S., Western Governors University
Benson, Johnett; DNP, Kent State University
Bergfeld, Marcia; M.S., Lourdes College
Berndt, Janeen; DNP, Valparaiso University
Blaine, Stephanie; Ph.D., Capella University
Cain, Lyn; Ph.D., Grand Canyon University
Carney, Mary; DNP, Touro University – Nevada
Chau-Nguyen, Thao; MPH, Tulane University
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 187
Cleveland, Melissa; DNP, Rocky Mountain University
Cloonan, Kelly; DNP, Case Western Reserve
Dahdal, Kimberly; M.S., Western Governors University
Dantzler, Barbara; Ph.D., Trident University
Diaz, Constance; Ph.D., University of Northern Colorado
Diaz, Lorna; DNP, Western University of Health Sciences
Dorin, Michelle; Ph.D., University of Missouri
Dush, Curtis; M.S., East Tennessee State University
Elmer, Justine; M.S., Kaplan University
Englert, Mary; DNP, University of North Florida
Feather, Rebecca; Ph.D., Indiana University
Frankie, Sandra; M.S., Western Governors University
Gabel, Ann; M.S., University of Kansas
Gayol, Marcos; M.S., Aspen University
Giaquinto, Elisa; M.A., Brown University
Gogatz, Debra; DNP, Regis University
Golden, Christina; MBA, University of Phoenix
Gottesfeld, Ilene; Ed.D., Nova Southeastern University
Gwyn, Elizabeth; M.S., Winston Salem State University
Hadsell, Christine; Ph.D., University of Kansas
Hansen, Julie; Ph.D., South Dakota State University
Hartley-Clanton, Patricia; M.S., University of Utah
Hawkins, Shannon; M.S., Walden University
Heyer-Schmidt, Theres-Anne; ND, University of Colorado-Denver
Hill, Dana; Ph.D., Walden University
Hunt, Eleanor; M.S., Duke University
Johnson-Anderson, Heidi; Ed.D., University of South Dakota
Kangas, Sandra; Ph.D., Georgia State University
Kogan, Lisa; M.S., Western Governors University
Langer Atkinson, Heidi; Ph.D., University of Albany
Lashlee, Marilyn; DNP, Northeastern University
Long, Jennifer; M.S., Indiana University
Marshall, Janet; Ph.D., Rush University
Masterson, Debra; Ed.D., Liberty University
Matheson, Rebekka; M.D., University of Rochester
McCombs, Darlene; DNP, University of Alabama
Miller, Michele; Ed.D., Valdosta State University
Murray, Reinette; DNP, Oakland University
Nmezi, Murphy; M.D., University of Vienna
Northrup, Dolores; M.S., Western Governors University
Penick, Julie; DNP, University of Missouri-St. Louis
Perez, Susan; DNP, Chatham University
Peters, Tamara; M.S., Walden University
Pritchard, Paula; Ph.D., University of Florida
Querales, Carolyn; DNP, University of Minnesota
Randall, Rebecca; Ed.D., University of South Dakota
Reed, LaTesha; DNP, Samuel Merritt University
Richards, Kimberly; MBA, Western Governors University
Robertson, Samara; M.S., Frontiers University
Roe, Patricia; Ph.D., University of Phoenix
Romain-Lapeine, Fabiola; DNP, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Rumsey, Shannon; M.S., University of Colorado at Colorado Springs
Sauls, John; M.S., Western Governors University
Schmidt, John; DNP, Walden University
Schneider, Alisa; Ph.D., Oregon State University
Schreffler, Karen; DNP, Carlow University
Shaw Hoopingarner, Diana; Diana, Regis University
Sinatra-Wilhelm, Tina; DNP, Chatham University
Sizemore, Mary; M.S., Indiana Wesleyan University
Starkey, Traci; Ph.D., Barry University
Steighner, Tammy; M.S., University of Phoenix
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 188
Stewart, Melissa; DNP, Case Western Reserve
Stubblefield, Angelique; Ph.D., Case Western Reserve University
Sunderhaus, Patricia; Ed.D., Argosy University
Tersigni, Christopher; M.S., Chamberlin College of Nursing
Thompson, Mindy; M.S., Northeastern State University
Von Holden, Sophia; Ph.D., University of Houston
Ward, Billie; M.S., University of South Alabama
Williams, Deborah; M.S., University of Alabama at Birmingham
Williams-Fultz, Rosie; Ph.D., William Carey University
Withers, Gail; DNP, University of Kansas
Yoose, Cora; Ph.D., Florida International University
© Western Governors University Apr 28, 2017 189
