Institutional Catalog
Western Governors University
2025 University Catalog
Volume MMXXV, No. 5
May 2025
Undergraduate and Graduate Programs
School of Business
Leavitt School of Health
School of Technology
School of Education
The electronic catalog—the WGU public website—is available at any time by accessing the following URL:
www.wgu.edu
Disclaimer: All information in the Institutional Catalog is provided for information purposes only and is subject to
change without prior notice.
Western Governors University Corporation
4001 South 700 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
Toll Free: 866.225.5948
Local Phone: 801.274.3280
Fax: 801.274.3305
info@wgu.edu
www.wgu.edu
Table of Contents
About Western Governors University 7
Admissions 14
State Regulatory Information 23
Tuition and Financial Aid 26
Academic Policies 33
Standalone Courses and Certificates 49
Academic Programs 57
School of Business Programs 60
B.S. Accounting 61
B.S. Human Resource Management 63
B.S. Information Technology Management 65
B.S. Business Management 67
B.S. Marketing 69
B.S. Communications 71
B.S. Finance 73
B.S. Healthcare Administration 75
B.S. Supply Chain and Operations Management 77
B.S. User Experience Design 79
Master of Business Administration 81
MBA Information Technology Management 82
MBA Healthcare Administration 83
M.S. Management and Leadership 84
M.S. Marketing (Digital Marketing Specialization) 85
M.S. Marketing (Marketing Analytics Specialization) 86
M.S. Accounting - Auditing 87
M.S. Accounting - Financial Reporting 88
M.S. Accounting - Management Accounting 89
M.S. Accounting - Taxation 90
M.S. Human Resource Management 91
Leavitt School of Health Programs 92
B.S. Nursing Prelicensure (Pre-Nursing) 93
B.S. Nursing Prelicensure (Nursing) 94
B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN) 95
B.S. Health Information Management 96
B.S. Health and Human Services 98
B.S. Health Science 100
B.S. Psychology 102
B.S. Public Health 104
M.S. Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner 106
M.S. Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 107
M.S. Nursing - Education 108
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management 109
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics 110
M.S. Nursing - Education (RN to MSN) 111
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN) 113
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN) 115
Master of Healthcare Administration 117
Master of Public Health 118
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner 119
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 120
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Education 121
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management 122
School of Technology Programs 123
B.S. Cloud Computing (AWS Track) 124
B.S. Cloud Computing (Azure Track) 126
B.S. Cloud Computing (Multi-Cloud Track) 128
B.S. Computer Science 130
B.S. Computer Science (BSCS to MSCS) 132
B.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 134
B.S. Data Analytics 136
B.S. Information Technology 138
B.S. Information Technology (BSIT to MSITM) 140
B.S. Network Engineering and Security 142
B.S. Network Engineering and Security (Cisco Track) 144
B.S. Software Engineering (Java Track) 146
B.S. Software Engineering (C# Track) 148
B.S. Software Engineering (BSSWE to MSSWE) 150
M.S. Computer Science - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 152
M.S. Computer Science - Computing Systems 153
M.S. Computer Science - Human-Computer Interaction 154
M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance 155
M.S. Data Analytics (Data Science) 156
M.S. Data Analytics (Data Engineering) 157
M.S. Data Analytics (Decision Process Engineering) 158
M.S. Information Technology Management 159
M.S. Software Engineering - AI Engineering 160
M.S. Software Engineering - DevOps Engineering 161
M.S. Software Engineering - Domain Driven Design 162
School of Education Programs 163
B.A. Elementary Education 165
B.A. Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure) 167
B.A. Special Education (Mild to Moderate) 169
B.S. Mathematics Education (Secondary) 171
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) 173
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) 175
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) 177
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Physics) 179
B.A. Educational Studies in Elementary Education 181
B.A. Educational Studies in Special and Elementary Education 183
B.A. Educational Studies in Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities Special Education 185
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Mathematics Education 187
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Biological Science Education 189
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Chemistry Science Education 191
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Earth Science Education 193
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Physics Science Education 195
M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education 197
M.A. Teaching, English Education (Secondary) 199
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary) 200
M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Biology) 201
M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) 202
M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) 203
M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Physics) 204
M.A. Teaching, Social Studies Education (Secondary) 205
M.A. Teaching, Special Education 206
M.S. Curriculum and Instruction 208
M.S. Educational Leadership 209
M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (K-12 and Adult Learner) 210
M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (Adult Learner) 211
M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (K-12 Learner) 212
M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12) 213
M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6) 214
M.A. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) 215
M.A. Mathematics Education (Secondary) 216
M.A. Science Education (Middle Grades) 217
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) 218
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) 219
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) 220
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Physics) 221
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12) 222
Program Outcomes 223
Course Descriptions 247
Instructor Directory 311
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 6
About Western Governors University
Why are we called Western Governors University? Our name tells the story of our founding—a story that dates back to
1997, when a group of U.S. governors came up with an innovative answer to a question of growing concern: How can we
ensure more of our residents have greater access to a college education that fits their schedule? That meeting of the
Western Governors' Association marked the beginnings of a new national university.
From the beginning, we were designed to be different. The U.S. governors who founded WGU knew that the college
student of the 21st century would be very different from students in the past. For millions of working adults, the dream of
pursuing a college education could only become a reality once the boundaries of time and place could be removed.
Overcoming this challenge was at the heart of the WGU idea.
It was the mid-1990s, and a new technology was quickly emerging: the internet. As more and more Americans were able
to get online, the possibility of an ''anywhere, anytime'' education became a reality. And more than simply delivering
traditional, lecture-based learning via modem and monitor, our founders recognized that technology could be used to
fundamentally change the way college students learn. Harnessing the power of the internet and our innovative new
learning model—competency-based education—WGU revolutionized the way students learn, master concepts, and
progress to a degree.
As a nonprofit, online university founded by governors, WGU is different. But even beyond the unique story of our
founding and the foresight of our founders, WGU is different for a more fundamental reason: We do education differently.
WGU is mission-driven. Created to expand access to higher education through online, competency-based degree
programs, WGU’s mission has remained one of helping hardworking adults meet their educational goals and improve
their career opportunities. Our mission is to change lives for the better by creating pathways to opportunity.
Core Academic Commitments
WGU Core Academic Commitments support our mission to create pathways to opportunity by ensuring students receive
an education with value, integrity, relevancy, transparency, and personalization.
• Value: Advance the value of WGU's competency-based education model and credentials.
• Integrity: Base each credential on a relevant assessment of competence that is psychometrically sound and
assessed with integrity.
• Relevance: Align every competency to skills that can stack to high-value marketable skills, applicable knowledge,
and respected credentials.
• Transparency: Design skills, competencies, and credentials to be surfaced on a sharable learner-owned record.
• Personalization: Personalize pathways, pace, and support to ensure equitable access and attainment of
credentials.
WGU equips students with the skills employers want, backed by credentials employers trust.
Competency-Based Education
Colleges and universities traditionally require attendance in a classroom, conferring degrees based on completion of a
certain set of courses for a given number of credit hours. As an online institution that provides its students the
convenience of studying and completing coursework outside the classroom, WGU provides competency-based courses
to complete its degree and non-degree requirements. Competency-based programs allow students to demonstrate that
they have acquired the competencies (levels of knowledge, skill, or ability) required for a particular degree or certificate.
Students have often acquired many of the skills necessary for a degree through life or work experience. WGU’s system
enables students to utilize previously learned skills in proving their competencies.
A team of faculty have identified the required competencies for each program offered at WGU. Competencies summarize
the critical knowledge and skill levels essential for mastery of a particular field. WGU students demonstrate mastery of
competencies by completing assessments. An assessment may be a test, a project, an essay, or another practical
demonstration of a required skill. Therefore, assessments might look like:
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 7
• Assignments involving problem-solving in science or information technology.
• Computerized math examinations consisting of multiple-choice, matching, and other question types.
• Projects requiring the student to design a lesson plan about American history.
• Reflection essays about case studies.
• Research papers on particular topics within the student’s field.
Each assessment measures knowledge and skill in a given area through appropriate means. Assessments are
developed using a rigorous process that conforms to professional testing standards. This process yields high-quality
exams, reliable results, and supports valid conclusions about each student’s level of competence. Students can be
confident that all their assessments, whether computerized exams or performance tasks, align to and demonstrate
specific competencies in their individual degree programs.
Accreditation
Accreditation provides external, expert evaluation of WGU’s programs and policies, eases the transfer of credits to other
accredited institutions, and legitimizes degree credentials for employers and colleges.
NWCCU
Western Governors University is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. Accreditation of
an institution of higher education by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities indicates that it meets or
exceeds criteria for the assessment of institutional quality evaluated through a peer review process. An accredited
college or university is one which has available the necessary resources to achieve its stated purposes through
appropriate educational programs, is substantially doing so, and gives reasonable evidence that it will continue to do so
in the foreseeable future. Institutional integrity is also addressed through accreditation. Accreditation by the Northwest
Commission on Colleges and Universities is not partial but applies to the institution as a whole. As such, it is not a
guarantee of every course or program offered, or the competence of individual graduates. Rather, it provides reasonable
assurance about the quality of opportunities available to students who attend the institution. Inquiries regarding an
institution’s accredited status by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities should be directed to the
administrative staff of the institution. Individuals may also contact: Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities;
8060 165th Avenue NE, Suite 100; Redmond, WA 98052; (425) 558-4224; www.nwccu.org.
CAEP
The Teachers College at Western Governors University has been granted advanced-level accreditation (effective fall
2021 to fall 2025) from CAEP, the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation; 1140 19th St NW, Suite 400;
Washington, DC 20036; (202) 223-0077.
AAQEP
The teacher licensure programs offered through the WGU Teachers College have been awarded full accreditation by the
Association for Advancing Quality in Educator Preparation (AAQEP) through June 30, 2026. Full accreditation
acknowledges that a program prepares effective educators who continue to grow as professionals and that the program
has demonstrated the commitment and capacity to continue to do so.
CCNE
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and post-graduate APRN certificate
program at Western Governors University are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education. CCNE:
655 K Street NW, Suite 750; Washington, DC 20001; (202) 887-6791; http://www.ccneaccreditation.org.
CAHIIM
The Health Information Management accreditor of Western Governors University is the Commission on Accreditation for
Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). The College’s accreditation for the baccalaureate
degree in health information management has been reaffirmed through 2030. All inquiries about the program’s
accreditation status should be directed by mail to CAHIIM; 200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100; Chicago, IL 60601; by
phone at (312) 235-3255; or by email at info@cahiim.org.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 8
ACBSP
The baccalaureate and master’s degree programs offered by the School of Business at Western Governors University
are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP); 11520 W 199th St; Overland
Park, KS 66213; (913) 339-9356.
ABET
The B.S. in Computer Science program is accredited by the ABET Computing Accreditation Commission. ABET is the
global accreditor of college and university programs in applied and natural science, computing, engineering, and
engineering technology.
University Governance
Western Governors University is governed by a Board of Trustees consisting of educators, industry leaders, and state
governors. In addition, WGU continues to draw support from the governors of the member states that were instrumental
in the founding of WGU.
The following link provides information about the Board of Trustees, National Advisory Board, and other university
officials: https://www.wgu.edu/about/university-governance.html
Board of Trustees
Joseph B. Fuller, Chair Ruth Watkins
Professor of Management Practice President, Postsecondary Education
Harvard Business School Strada Education Foundation
April Chou Cole Clark
Managing Director Managing Director, Higher Education
Jasper Ridge Partners Deloitte
Dwana Franklin-Davis Jessie Woolley-Wilson
CEO Operating Partner
Reboot Representation Owl Ventures
Scott D. Pulsipher Dr. Harold Lee Martin, Sr.
President Chancellor Emeritus
Western Governors University North Carolina A&T State University
Lenny Mendonca Talia Milgrom-Elcott
Former Chief Economic and Business Advisor Founder and Executive Director
State of California Beyond100K and Starfish Institute
Eloy Oakley The Honorable Jared Polis
CEO Governor
College Futures Foundation State of Colorado
The Honorable Jim Geringer* David Simmons*
Director of Policy, ESRI Chairman and CEO
Former Governor of Wyoming Simmons Media Group
Dr. Samuel H. Smith*
President Emeritus
Washington State University
*Emeritus Trustees
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 9
University Leadership Council
Scott D. Pulsipher Bob Hunt
President and Chief Executive Officer Senior VP and General Counsel
Courtney Hills McBeth David Grow
Chief Academic Officer and Provost Chief Operating Officer
Nadeem Syed Sarah DeMark
Chief Financial Officer Vice Provost, Workforce Intelligence & Credential Integrity
David Morales Debbie Fowler
Senior VP, Technology and CIO Senior VP, Student Success
Gene Hayes Mallory Dwinal-Palisch
Senior VP, Regional Operations Executive Director, Craft Education
Stacey Ludwig-Johnson Mitsu Frazier
Senior VP, School of Education Senior VP, School of Business
Paul Bingham Bonnie Pattee
Senior VP, School of Technology Senior VP, People & Talent
David Perkinson Jason Levin
Senior VP, Program Development Executive Director, WGU LABS
Scott Neuner Chris Lee
Senior VP, Marketing President, WGU Academy
Academic Program Governance
Academic programs are developed and guided by WGU administrators working through several councils comprised of
academicians and industry experts in the various fields of knowledge. Each programmatic area (e.g., undergraduate
nursing, initial licensure for teaching) has a program council which is the faculty governing body for the degree or non-
degree program. Program councils, along with the program coordinator, are responsible for overseeing the development
of the curriculum (including competence descriptions, subdomains, and domains), overseeing all assessments, and
updating the curriculum.
In addition to program councils, an Assessment Council is responsible for working with program leaders, assessment
development vendors, and WGU assessment staff to ensure that WGU’s assessments are appropriate tests of the
competencies identified by the program leaders.
For a listing of members of each Council, see https://www.wgu.edu/about/university-governance.html.
Faculty Composition
WGU employs a disaggregated faculty model across the university. The aggregated roles and tasks performed by
traditional university professors (e.g., meeting with and advising students, course or curriculum design, instruction,
assessment) are distributed among faculty members. Consequently, the jobs of individual WGU faculty members focus
on single aspects of the academic experience, and students are supported by a team of faculty. Within WGU, there are
several faculty roles and associated tasks:
Assessment Faculty – An individual with expertise in assessment theory and practice who is responsible for the design,
development, and continuous improvement of assessments that support a competency-based curriculum in accordance
with industry best practices.
Curriculum Faculty – An individual with expertise in curriculum theory and practice who is responsible for the design,
development, and evaluation of competency-based curricula to provide relevant, robust learning experiences.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 10
Clinical Faculty – Professional experts who provide clinical instruction and evaluation to students in individual or group
settings to support students in meeting the practice requirements for licensure.
Instructors – Subject-matter experts who provide direct instruction to students in individual and/or group settings, and
who are responsible for providing course-specific student support that is effective, engaging, and appropriately
personalized.
Program Mentors – An individual with professional or domain expertise in program competencies who provides academic
guidance and personalized programmatic instruction and support to students.
Evaluators – Subject matter experts responsible for providing robust, personalized feedback on performance
assessments and evaluating student competency.
Faculty Leaders – Individuals with academic or professional expertise who manage teams of faculty and are accountable
for ensuring faculty provide timely, appropriately personalized student instruction or support that develops student
competency and supports student success. Faculty leaders are responsible for collaborating with Program Chairs to
make academic decisions that ensure program quality and strong student outcomes.
Honorary Faculty – An individual who is a recognized expert, nationally or internationally renowned in their field, or a
highly reputed scholar in their field and is thereby, uniquely qualified based on exceptional academic or professional
expertise. Honorary faculty may not necessarily meet stated minimum qualifications for other faculty positions.
Program Chairs – An individual with academic or professional expertise in the program domain who is accountable for
the integrity, excellence, national reputation, and continuous improvement of a portfolio of relevant educational programs
through leadership, innovation, fiscal efficiency, partnerships, and the advancement of the discipline. This administrative
faculty person is accountable for the quality, relevance, and performance of one or more academic programs. Chairs are
responsible for the financial, academic, and reputational health of the program(s) they lead and work closely with faculty
leaders to produce strong student outcomes.
Academic Calendar
The traditional academic calendar with limited enrollment periods, holidays, and other significant dates is not applicable.
In WGU’s continuous-enrollment model, new groups of degree-seeking students start on the first day of every month.
Students can access learning resources, schedule assessments, and complete performance assessments anytime.
WGU’s academic calendar divides a student’s academic year into two, six-month semesters called ''terms.'' The six
months that make up a term are based on when the student begins the program. For example, if a student begins the
program on February 1, the first term will last from February 1 through July 31. The second term would begin August 1.
Learning Resources
WGU students use a variety of learning resources, included in the cost of attendance, to acquire the skills and knowledge
needed to complete assessments. These learning resources come in a variety of forms (e.g., e-textbooks, web-based
tutorials, simulations, online labs).
Student Services
Students enrolling at WGU become part of our community of faculty and staff who are united under one goal: student
success. The Student Services office is available during extended hours to assist students with general questions and
administrative or accessibility issues. The Student Services team helps students resolve issues, listens to student issues
and concerns, and makes recommendations for improving policy and practice based on student feedback. The Student
Services team provides a formal means by which students can express their views, and those views in turn inform the
decisions we make.
The Student Services team assists students with unresolved concerns to find equitable resolutions. Prior to contacting
the Student Services office with a complaint, students should work with their Program Mentor. Mentors have the
expertise to guide students toward goals and direct them to resources to be successful. If, however, students have an
issue or problem that cannot be resolved by their Program Mentor, they are invited to contact the Student Services office.
Student Services can also assist students who wish to request to be assigned to a different Program Mentor.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 11
To contact the Student Services team, please call 877.435.7948 or email studentservices@wgu.edu. Representatives
are available Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and Saturday through Sunday from 10 AM to 7 PM MT.
Financial Services
WGU’s award-winning Financial Services team guides students through the process of paying for their educational
journeys. The Financial Aid Office can be reached by email at financialservices@wgu.edu or by calling 877.435.7948.
Hours of operation are weekdays 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed on weekends).
Service Desk
WGU’s Service Desk is available to help students resolve any technology problem by calling 877.435.7948 or emailing
servicedesk@wgu.edu. The Service Desk is open Monday through Friday from 6 AM to 10 PM MT and from 10 AM to 7
PM MT on Saturday and Sunday.
Student Wellness
WGU offers each student WellConnect™, a free, voluntary, and confidential service which offers counseling and support
services to students. WellConnect™ provides support with a live clinician by phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Due
to WGU’s online presence and lack of a physical campus, the WellConnect student assistance program constitutes the
extent of healthcare services available to WGU students.
Commencement
WGU hosts virtual and live commencement weekends over the course of the year, with new cities and events each year.
WGU’s Alumni Relations team provides these opportunities for students, graduates, and families to come together to
celebrate their accomplishments and achievements. Visit www.wgu.edu/commencement for details.
Alumni Engagement
WGU’s Alumni Community of graduates is quickly growing. To help support these graduates, the Alumni Engagement
team is constantly seeking new ways to provide alumni with the tools and resources they need to succeed in the next
phase of their lives. Graduates have free access to these tools and resources on the alumni community website:
www.wgu.edu/alumni.
Connect with other graduates using WGU’s Night Owl Network, a state-of-the-art networking platform developed
specifically for fostering mentorship experiences, or the WGU Alumni LinkedIn Group. These are both closed groups, as
graduates and students must request to be added as a member.
WGU Night Owl Network: www.wgu.edu/alumni/stay-involved.html
WGU Alumni LinkedIn Group: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/51112
WGU is eager to provide leadership opportunities to alumni who are dedicated to representing the university by hosting a
networking event, working with a student or prospective student who could use advice from someone who’s ''been there,''
helping at commencement, facilitating corporate and school district partnerships along with WGU, etc. This dedicated
group of alumni is called WGU’s Ambassadors Club. Please contact the Alumni Engagement team if you are interested
in joining WGU’s Ambassadors Club.
Career and Professional Development
WGU provides career assistance and resources to students and graduates. Career and Professional Development (CPD)
Specialists are available to educate students and graduates on how to develop a career plan, implement job- search
strategies, and assist with the creation of marketing tools such as resumes, cover letters, and professional portfolio
profiles. Additionally, students and graduates have exclusive 24/7 self-service access to professional career resources,
such as resume development and practice interview software, self-assessments, and job banks. For more information,
visit the Career and Professional Development Website: www.wgu.edu/careerservices.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 12
Please Note: WGU does not guarantee employment upon degree completion or provide placement services.
Library
The WGU Library’s mission is to provide access and delivery of information resources independent of time and place.
The fully online digital library serves students, faculty, and staff around the clock, with library resources available to users
24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The library collection includes hundreds of thousands of ebooks, full text journals, and
licensed academic databases. WGU librarians work with vendors to provide seamless access to information resources
and to ensure patron expectations are met when using library resources. Our main search uses EBSCO Discovery
Service, allowing students to search across the majority of WGU subscriptions via a single platform. Students can also
search individual databases and ebook collections, and have access to a variety of subject-specific research guides.
For materials not immediately available in our collection, the WGU Library provides document delivery and hardcopy
book loans through the University of Michigan and Reprints Desk document delivery. Students and faculty can also
suggest titles they feel would be a valuable addition to our existing library collections. The WGU Alumni Library is
available to students upon graduation and includes alumni subscription packages and, dependent on licensing
restrictions, some content from our main library collection.
WGU librarians work with university faculty and administration to integrate library resources and information literacy
instruction directly into WGU coursework. Library staff collaborate with subject matter experts, learning resource
specialists, instructional designers, and other content selectors to ensure WGU collections align with program needs, and
to help create tailored information literacy instruction.
Students have multiple options for working with librarians for reference and research support. They can email, schedule a
phone appointment, or chat live with a librarian. The chat service is available 24/7, including holidays. The library offers
general and college-specific live webinars. Information on library use and policies may be accessed at
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Library-Services/ta-p/48.
Facilities
As an online university, WGU does not have a physical campus for students. Prospective students are informed of the
computer capacity requirements for successful access to all WGU systems and learning resources. WGU has various
administrative offices placed throughout the United States with the headquarters located in Utah.
Utah Headquarters: 4001 S 700 E, Suite 700; Salt Lake City, UT 84107 (with nursing lab)
Arizona: 432 N 44th St, Suite 400; Phoenix, AZ 85008
Indiana: 333 N Alabama St, Suite 250; Indianapolis, IN 46204
Missouri: 12200 N Ambassador Dr, Kansas City, MO 64163 (with nursing lab)
North Carolina: 1009 Slater Rd, Suite 310; Durham, NC 27703
Ohio: 325 John H. McConnell Blvd., Suite 375; Columbus, OH 43215
Tennessee: 501 Corporate Centre Dr, Suite 390; Franklin, TN 37067
Texas (Austin): 12515 Research Blvd, Building 8, Suite 250; Austin, TX 78759
Texas (Houston): 2051 S Greenhouse Rd, Suite 375; Houston, TX 77084 (with nursing lab)
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 13
Admissions
General Admission Requirements
WGU seeks to admit individuals who have the capacity and determination to complete a rigorous WGU certificate or
degree program. The admission process is designed to help students and the university reach an informed decision
about an applicant’s likelihood of success.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions.html
Admissions Criteria
For each student who applies, WGU will evaluate previous academic history to include high school or college coursework
and/or work history as required.
Students may also meet admissions requirements by completing WGU single or bundled course offerings, an alternative
pathway to regular matriculation into a WGU degree program.
To be considered for enrollment into a bachelor's degree program, applicants must possess a high school diploma or its
equivalent. Depending upon the program of interest, other specific admission requirements may also apply. See the
program-specific admission requirements below.
Applicants seeking admission to WGU must be no less than 14 years of age. Applicants seeking admission to WGU
programs leading to professional licensure must be at least 18 years of age at the time of clinical or field placement
requirements. Furthermore, applicants may not be incarcerated in a state or federal penal institution. Applicants must
also meet all other general and specific degree program admission requirements on the WGU website. For more
information on admissions policies, see https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Admission-
Requirements/ta-p/79.
For convenience, WGU starts new groups of students in most degree programs every month. Currently, WGU programs
do not require a specific score on either the SAT or ACT.
English Language Requirement (TOEFL): WGU students are expected to communicate clearly in writing and during
conversations with WGU faculty and staff. If English is not a student's native language, they must submit proof of a
qualifying score on the Internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL iBT). WGU requires a qualifying
score of 80 or higher. Please see https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Admission/English-Language-Requirement-TOEFL/ta-p/40.
Steps and Deadlines for Enrollment
1. Apply for admission and pay the application fee. The application fee is $65 and can be paid online using a credit card
or by mailing a check or money order. The application fee must be paid before an application will be fully processed.
WGU does not profit from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admissions costs.
2. Send in official transcripts. Depending on the program, students may need to have a transfer evaluation or degree
verification. Students with prior college experience should send in their transcripts to help with a transfer evaluation and
admissions decision. Official copies of transcripts must arrive by the 5th of the month prior to the intended start date for
evaluation.
Official transcript copies can be submitted by mail or email (transcriptinfo@wgu.edu):
Western Governors University
ATTN: Transcripts Department
4001 South 700 East, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84107-2533
3. Complete the financial aid application process. If intending to use federal financial aid to cover tuition expenses,
students will need to complete WGU’s financial aid application process and be certified as eligible to receive aid no later
than the 22nd of the month prior to the intended start date. An Enrollment Counselor can answer any questions.
4. Complete the Commit to Start documents. Once official transcripts have been received, an admission decision will be
made. At this point students will complete a self-guided, web-based experience or speak with a WGU Enrollment
Counselor to submit their Commit to Start documents. This process will finalize enrollment and officially set the program
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 14
start date. This process will likely take 20 to 30 minutes.
5. Make tuition payment arrangements. Tuition payment arrangements must be made by the 22nd of the month prior to
the intended start date. WGU strongly encourages students to make tuition arrangements or finish the financial aid
process sooner.
6. Complete orientation. Once the other steps are completed, students will be ready to begin WGU orientation. The
orientation course is designed to help students: understand WGU’s competency-based approach to education, identify
their learning style, gain skills in online research, review time management and study skills, gain practice using online
communication tools such as threaded discussions and chat, and connect with peers and mentors online.
School of Business Admission Requirements
Degrees from the School of Business emphasize mastery of the skills and knowledge that are essential for continued
advancement. Below are admissions requirements specific to School of Business programs that are in addition to WGU’s
general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/business_requirements
Special requirements for WGU’s Undergraduate Business Programs:
• Applicants to undergraduate School of Business programs must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent
AND demonstrate program readiness through one of the following options:
◦ Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a cumulative GPA of
2.0 or higher.
◦ Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associates degree (A.A or A.S. acceptable) from an accredited post-
secondary institution.
◦ Option 3: Submit high school transcripts for review with a GPA of 2.0 or higher.
Special Requirements for WGU’s MBA Programs and M.S. Programs:
• Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree from an accredited institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s MS Accounting Program:
• Submit a transcript verifying receipt of a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution.
• Demonstrate accounting experience through at least one of the following methods:
◦ A bachelor's degree in accounting.
◦ A Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license.
Leavitt School of Health Admission Requirements
All of the degrees offered by WGU’s Leavitt School of Health focus on mastery of the skills and knowledge that are
essential to success in this vital and high-demand field. Below are admissions requirements specific to Leavitt School of
Health programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html
Special requirements for WGU’s Non-Nursing Undergraduate Programs:
• Applicants must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent AND demonstrate program readiness through
one of the following:
◦ Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a cumulative GPA of
2.0 or higher.
◦ Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associates degree (A.A or A.S. acceptable) from an accredited post-
secondary institution.
◦ Option 3: Submit high school transcripts for review with a GPA of 2.5 or higher.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. in Nursing Program:
• Possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 15
approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). RN
licensure in your state of residence or employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences.
Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence.
• Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com).
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (RN to MSN
Option) Programs:
• Possess an associate’s degree or diploma in nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). RN
licensure in your state of residence or employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences.
Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence.
• Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com) and
provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special requirements for WGU’s M.S. in Nursing Education, Informatics, or Leadership and Management (BSN to MSN
Option) Programs:
• Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (though you
are not required to be working as an RN at the time of enrollment). Some license holders may be granted a waiver
if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment. RN licensure in your state of residence or
employment is required to successfully complete clinical experiences. Compact licenses must be endorsed by
your state of residence.
• Submit to and pass a criminal background check through American Databank (www.wgucompliance.com) and
provide proof of current immunizations. Additional fees apply.
Special Requirements for WGU’s Master of Healthcare Administration Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university and experience in healthcare or healthcare-related
industry. OR
• Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university and obtain MHA department chair professional
coaching.
Special Requirements for WGU’s Master of Public Health Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree with a minimum 2.5 GPA from an accredited university.
Special requirements for WGU's Post-Master's Certificates in Nursing Programs:
• Possess an M.S. in Nursing from an accredited institution or state board of nursing approved program.
• Possess an active, unencumbered RN license in your state of residence or your state of employment (some
license holders may be granted a waiver if they are not licensed in their state of residence or employment). You
must be licensed in the state in which you will complete your clinical experience.
Special requirements for WGU's MSN Family Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution or state board of nursing
approved program. Students that hold an MSN will not be eligible to apply for the MSN-FNP pathway.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The FNP is
currently not available for students in California, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York, North
Dakota, and Washington.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a cover letter and professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 16
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become an FNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:**
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• Have earned a 3.0 cumulative grade point average* (on a 4.0 scale) in the following 5 courses OR hold a BSNU
degree from WGU. All courses must be awarded a C- or above to meet this requirement. At this time, WGU is not
accepting transfer credit for the MSN Famlily Nurse Practitioner program.
◦ Anatomy / Physiology I w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Anatomy / Physiology II w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Statistics (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Pharmacology (equivalent to 2 semester hours)
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
**Access the Letter of Recommendation request form through your enrollment portal.
Special requirements for WGU's MSN Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess a bachelor of science in nursing degree (BSN) from an accredited institution. Students that hold an MSN
will not be eligible to apply for the BSN-PMHNP pathway.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The PMHNP
is currently not available for students in Arizona, California, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New
York, North Dakota, Washington, and Wisconsin.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become a PMHNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:**
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• Have earned a 3.0 cumulative grade point average* (on a 4.0 scale) in the following 5 courses OR hold a BSNU
degree from WGU. All courses must be awarded a C- or above to meet this requirement. At this time, WGU is not
accepting transfer credit for the MSN Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner program.
◦ Anatomy / Physiology I w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Anatomy / Physiology II w/lab (equivalent to 4 semester hours)
◦ Statistics (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Human Growth and Development Across the Lifespan (equivalent to 3 semester hours)
◦ Pharmacology (equivalent to 2 semester hours)
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
**Access the Letter of Recommendation request form through your enrollment portal.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 17
Special requirements for WGU's Post-Master's Certificate Family Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess an M.S. in Nursing or Terminal Nursing Degree (e.g., DNP, PhD) from an accredited institution or state
board of nursing approved program.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The FNP
Post-Master's Certificate is currently not available for students in Arizona, California, District of Columbia,
Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York, North Dakota, and Washington.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become an FNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
Special requirements for WGU's Post-Master's Certificate Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Program:
• Possess an M.S. in Nursing or Terminal Nursing Degree (e.g., DNP, PhD) from an accredited institution or state
board of nursing approved program.
• Possess a current, active, unencumbered registered nurse (RN) license from AND a permanent residence in an
approved state. Students must complete the internships in their state of residence/license and intend to obtain
initial APRN licensure in that state. Compact licenses must be endorsed by your state of residence. The PMHNP
is currently not available for students in Arizona, California, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New
York, North Dakota, and Washington.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank* (www.wgucompliance.com).
• Submit a professional resume or CV* outlining your academic, professional, and service history.
• Submit an application essay.* You must submit a 3 to 4 page student statement detailing your experience in
nursing and explaining why you want to become a PMHNP. This document helps us understand your unique
situation and personal goals.
• Provide three letters of recommendation from:
◦ A supervisor or manager who directly supervised you in a clinical setting.
◦ A professor, faculty member, or academic advisor who can provide meaningful input regarding your
academic record.
◦ A Board Certified practicing healthcare provider (APRN, NP, PA, MD, DO) who has served as a mentor or
whom you have shadowed, preferably in the specialty to which you are applying. A registered nurse cannot
serve as the practicing provider for this recommendation source.
• It is strongly preferred that applicants have one year of clinical experience and be actively working as an RN at the
time of application as these will be competitive factors in the admission decision-making process.
*Additional information is available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
Special requirements for WGU’s B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Program:
Admission Requirements Include:
• Nursing Entrance Exams
• Background Check
• Nursing Application Essay
• Active Nursing Prelicensure File
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 18
For more information on these requirements, please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-
requirements.html and refer to the sections below on this page.
Admission Requirements for the B.S. Nursing Prelicensure Program:
The Leavitt School of Health at Western Governors University is committed to student success and partners with the
WGU Office of Admissions to determine academic eligibility for the Prelicensure Nursing program. Applicants who submit
all admission requirements will be reviewed through a weighted evaluation system that considers several factors. The
Office of Admissions reviews all applicants based on their academic experience and nursing entrance exam scores.
• Admission is competitive and not guaranteed; additional factors important to student success in the nursing
program may also be considered.
• Admission to and enrollment in the Prelicensure Nursing program does not guarantee acceptance into the clinical
nursing portion of the program.
• Only residents of the following states are eligible to apply to this program - Arkansas, Florida, Idaho, Indiana,
Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio,
Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Any
applications from residents outside of these states will not be accepted.
To be considered for enrollment into the Prelicensure Nursing Program, applicants must possess a high school diploma
or its equivalent, be at least 16 years of age, and complete the following admission requirements:
• Complete the HESI A2 or ATI TEAS nursing exam within the last five years.
• Submit to a criminal background check through American Databank.
• Submit a Prelicensure Nursing Application Essay.
• Activate their Prelicensure Nursing File which includes a declaration of: the date and location an applicant is
applying to, completed certifications, completed licenses, and military service and training.
Requirements that must be satisfied in pre-nursing terms to be eligible to progress to the clinical nursing program:
There are costs outside of tuition and fees involved with creating your compliance account early in your pre-nursing terms
and purchasing uniforms and supplies by the end of your last pre-nursing term. These costs will vary based on each item
along with geographic location/provider.
Students who are successful in the pre-nursing terms will be eligible for progression into the nursing portion of the
program. The following must be completed to be considered for progression into the nursing portion of the program:
• Proof of health insurance.*
• Proof of successfully passing of a criminal background check (also may require a state background check to be
completed per state regulatory requirements for nursing programs).
• Proof of successfully passing a urine drug test.
• Proof of a current immunization record and current negative TB test. To see which immunizations are required,
please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
• Proof of meeting the specific physical requirements in accordance with the core performance standards of the
nursing profession. For examples, please visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/nursing-health-requirements.html.
• Participation in the Nursing Progression Committee process.
* Student malpractice insurance will be provided by WGU at no cost.
School of Technology Admission Requirements
Degree programs from WGU's School of Technology focus on providing the skills, knowledge, certifications, and
credentials students need to be a successful IT pro. Below are admissions requirements specific to School of Technology
programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/it_requirements
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 19
Special Requirements for WGU’s B.S. Computer Science Program:
Students must be able to use key Calculus principles, rules, and applications while in the B.S. Computer Science
program. Students must meet the following admission requirements for admittance to this program:
• Possess a high school diploma or its equivalent.
• Demonstrate readiness through completion of one of the following:
◦ Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a minimum of 2.75
GPA or higher, AND successful and verifiable completion of a pre-calculus course from a WGU approved
third-party provider with a grade ''C'' or better.*
◦ Option 2: A high school GPA of 3.0, or higher, AND a B grade, or better, in a high school honors, IB, or AP
level advanced mathematics course.
*If no previous Pre-Calculus course has been completed by the time of application, students can complete this course
prior to matriculation.
Special Requirements for WGU’s IT bachelor's degree programs:
To be considered for enrollment into a School of Technology bachelor's degree program, students must possess a high
school diploma or its equivalent and demonstrate program readiness through one of the following:
• Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework with a minimum of 2.75 GPA or
higher.
• Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associate degree (A.A, A.S. or A.A.S. acceptable) from an accredited post-
secondary institution.
• Option 3: Submit official record of completion of a transferable IT certification, some of which may provide transfer
credit into various programs.
• Option 4: Submit high school transcripts with a minimum GPA of 3.0.
• Option 5: Submit transcripts documenting completion of previous IT coursework (must be 300 level or higher).
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field, Business degree (Quantitative Analysis, Accounting, Economics,
Finance, or degree with similar quantitative focus). OR
• Possess any bachelor’s degree PLUS one of the following:
◦ Two years of related work experience
◦ Relevant and current IT certification
◦ Related IT coursework
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. IT Management Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Data Analytics Program:
• Possess a bachelor’s degree in a STEM field. OR
• Possess any bachelor’s degree PLUS one of the following:
◦ Completed college-level coursework in statistics and computer programming with a grade of B- or better.
◦ At least two years of work experience in a data analytics, data science, data engineering, or database
administration role.
◦ A current and active third-party certification in data analytics, data science, or data engineering from the list
available at http://www.wgu.edu/admissions/it_requirements.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Software Engineering Program:
To be considered for enrollment into this program, students must possess any bachelor’s degree from an accredited
institution plus ONE of the following:
• Option 1: Possess a bachelor’s degree in a programming-related field such as Software Engineering, Software
Development, Computer Science, Data Analytics, or Data Science from an accredited institution.
• Option 2: Have completed a college-level course in Object Oriented Programming with a grade of B- or better.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 20
Alternatively, students may complete the Introduction to Python Programming course. If students complete the
course within a given period and matriculate, the $99 investment will go toward their tuition with WGU.
• Option 3: Have at least two years of industry experience as a programmer.
• Option 4: Have a current and active certification from one of the following: PCAP™–Certified Associate Python
Programmer, PCAD™–Certified Associate Data Analyst with Python, or IBM Data Science Professional
Certificate.
Special Requirements for WGU’s M.S. Computer Science Program:
To be considered for enrollment into this program, students must possess any bachelor’s degree from an accredited
institution plus ONE of the following:
• Option 1: Students with a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) in Computer Science may enroll directly into one of the
three enrollable graduate code programs.
• Option 2: Students with a bachelor's degree in a field other than Computer Science must complete the
Foundations of Computer Science course prior to enrolling in the program.
Students from other WST undergraduate programs (excluding BSCS) will be required to complete the Foundations of
Computer Science (FOCS) before pursuing this program to ensure they have the necessary program knowledge for
maximum success in the graduate courses.
School of Education Admission Requirements
The WGU School of Education is a recognized national leader in online teacher education. Below are admissions
requirements specific to School of Education programs that are in addition to WGU’s general admissions requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/teaching-requirements.html
Special Requirements for Undergraduate Programs Leading to Initial Licensure:
Applicants to undergraduate initial licensure programs must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent AND
demonstrate program readiness through one of the following options:
• Option 1: Submit transcripts documenting completion of college-level coursework for review of GPA.
• Option 2: Possess a bachelors or associate degree (A.A or A.S. acceptable) from an accredited institution.
• Option 3: Submit high school transcripts for review of GPA.
Special Requirements for Programs Leading to Endorsement:
If enrolled in a program that also includes a special endorsement (for example, the M.A. in Mathematics Education, with
an endorsement to teach secondary mathematics) and the student plans to eventually apply for the endorsement, the
following are required:
• A copy of a valid teaching license (an Enrollment Counselor will instruct students when and how to submit their
teaching license prior to or during their program).
• Official transcripts demonstrating that a bachelor’s degree was earned from a recognized, accredited university.
Additional Requirements for Entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership Program:
Prior to entry into the M.S. Educational Leadership degree program, students will be required to complete a candidate
interview and provide the following:
• Evidence of a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution.
• Proof of a state issued, valid, and unexpired standard professional license.
• A resume showing three years of licensed professional experience in a P-12 setting (excluding probationary,
temporary, and substitute teaching experience).
• A confidential recommendation.
• Recent annual summative performance evaluation.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 21
Additional Requirements for Entry into M.A. in Teaching Programs:
To be considered eligible for enrollment into a M.A. in Teaching English Education, Mathematics Education, Science
Education, or Social Studies Education degree programs, students must provide official transcripts that demonstrate they
have earned a bachelor’s degree from a recognized, institutionally accredited (also known as regionally accredited)
university AND demonstrate readiness through one of the following:
• Option 1: Content-related undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.5 (or higher, depending upon
your state).
• Option 2: Undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.5 (or higher, depending upon your state) and
24-30 hours of content specific coursework, equivalent to a major.
• Option 3: Undergraduate or graduate degree with GPA of at least 2.0 (or higher, depending upon your state), a
passing score on the WGU program required basic skills test (e.g., Praxis CORE) and demonstrate content
competency via one of the following pathways 1) 24-30 hours of content specific coursework, equivalent to a major
OR 2) an undergraduate or graduate degree in a content-related area to which area of program you are seeking
admission.
The M.A. in Teaching, Elementary Education and M.A. in Teaching, Special Education degree programs requires a 2.5
minimum GPA (or higher, depending upon your state), or the competency-based equivalent, in your bachelor's program.
Applicants with a GPA lower than a 2.5 but a 2.0 or above may seek admission by submitting passing scores from the
WGU program required basic skills test (e.g. Praxis CORE). An Enrollment Counselor can help students best determine
whether they have the sufficient background for entry into their program of choice.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 22
State Regulatory Information
Western Governors University monitors developments in state rules and regulations to maintain pathways to
opportunities where students reside. If changes to the pathways occur while a student is enrolled, WGU works with the
state and notifies the affected students to potential alternative pathways.
Professional Licensure
WGU regularly verifies licensure requirements in each state for programs that lead to a professional license. For a
current listing of licensure information, please see the links below.
Teacher Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-teaching-degrees/state-licensure.html
Nursing Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-nursing-health-degrees/state-licensure.html
Business Licensure - https://www.wgu.edu/online-business-degrees/state-licensure.html
NC-SARA
Western Governors University is a participating institution of the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity
Agreements (''NC-SARA'' or ''SARA''), allowing WGU to operate in a number of states/territories based on its approval in
the State of Utah. For additional information on NC-SARA, visit http://nc-sara.org. After exhausting WGU’s Student
Complaint Process, the Utah System of Higher Education (''USHE'') handles complaints from individuals in states/
territories where the university operates (see https://ushe.edu/office-of-commissioner/state-authorization-ut-sara/);
however, USHE will only consider complaints that were previously unresolved by WGU and may refer a complaint to an
agency in another state for investigation.
Complaint Process: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Consumer-Complaint-Process/ta-p/160
If a state or territory is not included below, WGU educates students in those jurisdictions through participation in SARA.
American Samoa
American Samoa does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval for WGU to offer distance education
programs to students located in American Samoa is not required.
California
The California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education does not regulate out-of-state private nonprofit institutions.
Therefore, approval for WGU to offer distance education programs to students located in California is not required.
Guam
The Guam Council on Post-Secondary Institution Certification does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval
for WGU to offer distance education programs to students located in Guam is not required.
Indiana
Western Governors University, known in Indiana as ''Western Governors University Indiana'' or ''WGU Indiana'' was
chartered by Executive Order 10-04 of Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr., Governor of the State of Indiana, on June 11, 2010.
Missouri
Western Governors University, known in Missouri as ''Western Governors University Missouri'' or ''WGU Missouri'' was
established by Executive Order 13-04 of Jay Nixon, Governor of the State of Missouri, on February 15, 2013.
Western Governors University is approved to operate online degree programs by the Missouri Department of Higher
Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Department at 301 W. High
Street, P.O. Box 1469; Jefferson City, MO 65102-1469; info@dhewd.mo.gov.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 23
Nebraska
Western Governors University is approved to operate in Nebraska by Nebraska’s Coordinating Commission for
Postsecondary Education. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the
Commission at P.O. Box 95005; Lincoln, NE 68509-5005; (402) 471-2847.
Nevada
Western Governors University, known in Nevada as ''Western Governors University Nevada'' or ''WGU Nevada'' was
established by an Executive Proclamation of Brian Sandoval, Governor of the State of Nevada, on June 16, 2015.
North Carolina
Western Governors University, known in North Carolina as ''Western Governors University North Carolina'' or ''WGU
North Carolina'' was established on October 5, 2017 through approval by The University of North Carolina System.
The UNC System Office
223 S. West Street, Suite 1800
Raleigh, NC 27603
Website: https://www.northcarolina.edu/contact
Student complaints with the state may be submitted online at https://studentcomplaints.northcarolina.edu/form or for
more information use the following contact information:
North Carolina Post-Secondary Education Complaints
223 S. West Street, Suite 1800
Raleigh, NC 27603
919.962.4550
Website: https://www.northcarolina.edu/post-secondary-education-complaints
The State Board of Education has also established a process for student complaints concerning an Education
Preparation Program (EPP). For more information, refer to the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction (NCDPI)
website - https://www.dpi.nc.gov/documents/epp/epp-complaint-process/download?attachment
A Tuition Guarantee Bond for North Carolina is held at the office of the president in Salt Lake City, UT and is reviewable
upon request to those wishing to see it during business hours.
Northern Mariana Islands
The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands does not regulate distance education. Therefore, approval for WGU
to offer distance education programs to students located in the Northern Mariana Islands is not required.
Ohio
Western Governors University, known in Ohio as ''Western Governors University Ohio'' or ''WGU Ohio'' was established
on June 21, 2018 through approval by the Ohio Department of Higher Education. Additonal information regarding this
institution may be obtained by contacting the Department at 25 South Front Street; Columbus, OH 43215; (614) 466-
6000; https://highered.ohio.gov/.
Tennessee
Western Governors University, known in Tennessee as ''Western Governors University Tennessee'' or ''WGU
Tennessee'' was established through a Memorandum of Understanding between Bill Haslam, Governor of the State of
Tennessee, and Robert W. Mendenhall, President of Western Governors University, on July 9, 2013.
Texas
Western Governors University, known in Texas as ''Western Governors University Texas'' or ''WGU Texas'' was
established by Executive Order RP 75 of Rick Perry, Governor of the State of Texas, on August 3, 2011.
Western Governors University is authorized to conduct courses and grant degrees by the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board. Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the Board at 1200 E
Anderson Lane; Austin, TX 78752; (512) 427-6101.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 24
Utah
Western Governors University has met the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §13-34a-203 to be a registered
postsecondary school, legally authorized by the State of Utah.
Washington
Western Governors University, known in Washington as ''Western Governors University Washington'' or ''WGU
Washington'' was established by the passing of Substitute House Bill 1822, effective on July 22, 2011, with the approval
of Christine Gregoire, Governor of the State of Washington.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 25
Tuition and Financial Aid
Tuition and Fees for Degree Programs (Effective September 1, 2024)
WGU charges tuition at a flat rate every term. The more courses a student completes each term, the more affordable
their degree program becomes. For more information, visit https://www.wgu.edu/financial-aid-tuition.html. All prices below
are in U.S. Dollars.
Applicable to All Programs
Resource Fee: $200 Per Term
Application Fee: $65 (One Time)
Note: WGU does not ''profit'' from application fees, as they help offset only a small portion of enrollment and admission
costs. WGU charges a $200 Resource Fee each term. This fee helps cover the use of the online library, e-textbooks, and
many other learning resources. With few exceptions, required textbooks are available as e-textbooks, so students won’t
have to purchase hard copy textbooks.
Transcript order and other potential fees - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Tuition-and-Fees-Amount/ta-p/57
Costs for standalone courses and certificates are listed on page 49 of the catalog.
School of Business
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,755 Per Term
Graduate Program Tuition: $4,755 Per Term
Leavitt School of Health
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (RN to BSN) Tuition: $5,325 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Nursing (Prelicensure) Tuition: $8,755 Per Term + Other Fees*
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Health and Human Services Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Health Science Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Psychology Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Public Health Tuition: $4,210 Per Term
Master of Science, Nursing (RN to MSN) Tuition: $5,325 Per Term (Undergraduate), $5,035 Per Term (Graduate)
Master of Science, Nursing (BSN to MSN) Tuition: $5,035 Per Term
Master of Science or Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner Tuition: $6,850 Per Term
Master of Science or Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner Tuition: $6,955 Per Term
Master of Healthcare Administration Tuition: $4,955 Per Term
Master of Public Health Tuition: $4,995 Per Term
All Other Post-Master's Certificates Tuition: $5,035 Per Term
*B.S. Nursing (Prelicensure) Fees:
• Uniforms: approx. $150 (plus shipping, handling, and applicable taxes)
• Lab kit fees: approx. $250
• Drug Screen, Background Check, and Immunization Tracking System: $94 - includes one alias search. Additional
information is available on the degree webpage.
• Compliance fees will vary depending on the compliance items a student needs for placement. Additional
information is available on the degree webpage, including other potential fees.
School of Technology
Bachelor of Science, Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Tuition: $4,365 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Cloud Computing Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Computer Science Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Software Engineering Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 26
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology Tuition: $3,725 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Data Analytics Tuition: $3,835 Per Term
Bachelor of Science, Network Engineering and Security Tuition: $3,835 Per Term
Master of Science, Computer Science Tuition: $3,985 Per Term
Master of Science, Software Engineering Tuition: $4,085 Per Term
Master of Science, Cybersecurity & Information Assurance Tuition: $4,655 Per Term
Master of Science, Data Analytics Tuition: $4,520 Per Term
Master of Science, IT Management Tuition: $4,040 Per Term
Accelerated Information Technology Bachelor's and Master's Tuition: $3,835 Per Term (Undergraduate), $4,040 Per
Term (Graduate)
School of Education
Undergraduate Program Tuition: $3,825 Per Term
Graduate Program Tuition: $4,125 Per Term
Tuition Payment and Financial Policies
The Financial Aid Office can be reached by email at financialservices@wgu.edu or by calling 877.435.7948. Hours of
operation are weekdays 7 AM to 7 PM MT (closed on weekends). Please see the student handbook for an overview of
financial aid: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Financial-Aid-Overview/ta-p/195.
WGU Financial Policy
Western Governors University is dedicated to providing the best possible education and service to our students. A
complete understanding of financial responsibilities is an essential element of a student’s education. The WGU Financial
Services office is committed to assisting all student account needs. However, students have the primary responsibility to
make sure their tuition is paid on time each term.
Payment is Required at the Beginning of Each Term
Tuition for the full term is due by the 1st day of each term. Financial clearance is due for new students on or before the
22nd of the month proceeding the first day of the first term. Acceptance of term registration confirms agreement to pay
tuition in full. For a small enrollment fee, WGU offers a payment plan for those who cannot pay in full by the required
date. To enroll in a payment plan, select the ''View Payment Plans'' link in the Financial Services section on the Student
Support tab of the student portal. Payment or payment plan participation is required by the first day of each new term.
Students in an active bankruptcy, prior collection agency placement for a balance due to WGU, or who have a prior
payment plan default, are not eligible for a WGU payment plan.
Payment Deadlines
Payments received or payment arrangements must be completed on the student portal by:
• New student with first term tuition - On the 22nd day of month prior to term start.
• Renewal term tuition - First day of the term.
Financial Aid
Students have the responsibility to apply for and submit all forms required by the Financial Aid office and be aware of
deadlines for submission. Application for financial aid is not a guarantee of funding. In the event students are approved
for financial aid and are under-funded or students become ineligible for financial aid funds they are responsible for the
financial obligation on their account. Regardless of the status of their financial aid file, it is the responsibility of students to
ensure that tuition and fees are paid by the appropriate deadline.
In accordance with federal guidelines, WGU applies funds to student accounts in the following order, as available:
• Federal Pell grant
• Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG)
• State grants
• Scholarships/Tuition Assistance
• Direct subsidized loans
• Teach grant
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 27
• Americorps
• Direct unsubsidized loans
• PLUS loans
• Private loans
Payment Methods
WGU accepts cash, checks, and web checks/EFT at no additional cost to students. Credit/Debit cards (Visa, MasterCard,
Discover, and American Express) are accepted, but a 2.85% card processing fee applies. WGU does not accept post-
dated checks. WGU will not hold any check for deposit past the date of the receipt of the check. WGU is not responsible
for bank fees associated with the deposit of said check. More information about paying by check is available at
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Tuition-Payment-and-Financial-Policies/ta-p/145.
To protect students' financial records, WGU does not accept payments over the phone, under any circumstance.
Refunds
Once eligibility for a refund is calculated, the Financial Services office processes tuition charges and refunds within 30
days, as applicable. Funds reimbursed to students are reimbursed via the original payment method; i.e., payments
received via credit card are refunded (less non-refundable convenience fee) to the card used for payment, and payments
received via check are refunded via check or direct deposit. To set up your preferred check refund method, please
access the ‘Select Refund Method’ link available on the ‘My Account’ page in the Student portal. In the case of financial
aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the appropriate grant or loan program based on the
Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation, and as a result of this calculation, students may owe WGU a portion of
tuition and fees not covered.
All funding sources (i.e., internal and external scholarships, waivers, discounts and grants) will be reviewed and may be
subject to a proration calculation. In the case of third-party funds (i.e., employer contributions, government funding,
military payments, etc.), if the payment exceeds tuition and fees, WGU will follow any instructions provided by the original
payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. If no instructions are provided, the refund will be processed to the
original payer. Students are responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed, after refunds to all payers.
Note: For Missouri residents, the application fee is refundable if the applicant terminates the admission process by
notifying the Enrollment or Admissions Department within three business days of paying the application fee. The
resource fee is billed at the beginning of each term and is refundable if the student terminates enrollment within three
business days of the start of the term. After three business days, these fees are non-refundable.
Billing and Account Statements
A WGU student account billing notice is generated each time a charge or a charge adjustment is applied to a student
account. Billing notices are delivered to myWGU student email accounts. Students may download account statements
via the student portal by visiting the Student Support tab in the student portal. Select Financial Services on the left and
click ''My Account.'' Scroll to the bottom of the My Account screen to download a term account statement, cumulative
account statement, or course cost breakdown.
Past Due Accounts
Tuition for the full term is due by the first day of each term. Any account not paid in full, awarded financial aid funding or
other third-party guarantor, or on an authorized Payment Plan is past due on the second day of the term. Past due
accounts may be placed on financial hold for non-payment. Failure to complete payment or payment arrangements with
WGU or make payment in full may result in administrative withdrawal.
Automatic Enrollment Confirmation/Not Attending Cancellation for Renewal Term Students
Students' tuition for renewal terms is automatically charged on the first day of the term. Thus, if a student will not be
attending a subsequent term, it is necessary for the student to notify their Program Mentor by telephone or email prior to
enrollment for the term. Once the student has completed term enrollment with the Program Mentor, the student will be
liable for charges incurred.
Final Term Students
Students in their final term may be eligible for part time enrollment if they do not have enough required units remaining to
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 28
be full-time. All Students will have their tuition adjusted by the number of competency units enrolled in a term, not by time
attended within a term. For an estimate of prorated tuition, please refer to the student handbook article -
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Tuition-Information-for-Part-Time-Enrollment/ta-p/107
Returned Checks
Payment of tuition or fees with a check that is subsequently returned as unpaid from the bank results in a returned check
fee. A student may not satisfy a returned check obligation with a personal check. After two returned checks, WGU will no
longer accept a personal check for payment on a student's account. All future payments must be made via credit card
(which will incur a 2.85% convenience fee) or money order. Failure to clear a returned check taken in payment for tuition
or fees results in administrative withdrawal from WGU. Once this action is taken, students cannot be reinstated for the
term, but will owe prorated portion of the charges for tuition in addition to other collection costs and charges necessary
for the collection of the returned check. A student may apply for re-enrollment for the following term when all balances
are resolved.
Delinquent Accounts
Failure to meet financial obligations of any kind to the university may result in a financial hold and suspension of future
services including enrollment for subsequent terms. In addition, delinquent accounts may be referred to a collection
agency. Students are responsible for additional late payment charges, interest, attorney's fees, other reasonable costs,
and charges necessary for the collection of any amount not paid when due.
Student Financial Aid Requirements
http://www.wgu.edu/tuition_financial_aid/financial_aid
WGU is approved by the U.S. Department of Education to offer federal student aid in most of our programs. Because of
our more affordable tuition, WGU students are able to graduate without large amounts of student debt to repay. If
students qualify for and accept federal student aid, it will cover most, if not all, direct education expenses. Financial aid
can be used for tuition and fees (including electronic learning materials), textbooks, technology, room and board. A
complete list of allowable expenses is listed in the Cost of Attendance Policy.
To receive consideration for any federal student aid program, students must first file the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA) at https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa. When students fill out the FAFSA, they are applying
for aid for a specific year; therefore, they will need to renew the FAFSA application each award year.
Most WGU students qualify for at least one type of federal aid. To be eligible for federal student aid (grants, loans, and
work-study funds), students must meet the following requirements established by the U.S. Department of Education:
• demonstrate financial need (for most programs);
• be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen;
• have a valid Social Security number (with the exception of students from the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau);
• be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a regular student in an eligible program;
• be enrolled at least half-time to be eligible for Direct Loan Program funds;
• maintain satisfactory academic progress;
• sign the certification statement on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) form stating that you
are not in default on a federal student loan, you do not owe money on a federal student grant, and you will use
federal student aid only for educational purposes; and
• show you’re qualified to obtain a college education by
◦ having a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent such as a General Educational Development
(GED) certificate;
◦ completing a high school education in a homeschool setting approved under state law (or—if state law
does not require a homeschooled student to obtain a completion credential—completing a high school
education in a homeschool setting that qualifies as an exemption from compulsory attendance
requirements under state law); or
◦ enrolling in an eligible career pathway program and meeting one of the ''ability-to-benefit'' alternatives
described at https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/eligibility/requirements#ability-to-benefit.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 29
Satisfactory Academic Progress
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Federal regulations require that all students who receive federal student aid funds maintain satisfactory academic
progress (SAP). It is a measure of student progress toward the completion of a degree and is assessed by qualitative
(grade-based) and quantitative (time-based) measures. WGU evaluates these measures at the end of each completed
payment period or term in the student's academic program and at the time of withdrawal from the university.
The university defines demonstrating a competency (a grade of ''pass'') as a grade equivalent to a ''B'' or better (3.0 on a
4-point scale). WGU does not calculate a GPA. Students receive a mark of ''pass'' or ''not passed'' on their permanent
academic record for any courses for which they enroll in a term, regardless of whether they attempt an assessment. A
course with a grade of ''not passed'' or ''withdrawn'' is considered as a failed course and is counted against SAP.
A quantitative measure is the completion of 66.67% of all competency units attempted. This percentage is determined by
dividing the number of competency units completed by the total number of units for which a student enrolled cumulatively
over the student's academic career at WGU. Completing at least 66.67% of all competencies means the student is on
track to complete the program within the required 150% of the published length of the program measured in competency
units.
Maintaining Satisfactory Academic Progress
To maintain good standing for SAP, students must complete at least one course in each term and achieve an overall
minimum cumulative pass rate of 66.67% for all competency units attempted and completed.
The Higher Education Act requires a specific qualitative review at the end of the student's second academic year.
Students enrolled in a program of more than two academic years must have at least a ''C'' or its equivalent, or have an
academic standing consistent with WGU’s graduation requirements. In addition, a student is ineligible when it becomes
mathematically impossible for the student to complete their program within 150% of the length of the program.
Transfer Credits from Other Institutions
Students who are granted transfer credits to WGU that count toward the student's current grade level are included in both
attempted and completed when measuring SAP.
First-Term Critical Actions
New students at WGU who do not complete one of the defined ''first-term critical actions'' within 45 days from the first
term start date will be administratively withdrawn. WGU excludes this term from the SAP calculation. For more
information on first-term critical actions, see the student handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Technical-
Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989.
Program and Catalog Change
A change in the program of study will not affect a student's SAP standing. If the new program is in the same credential
level as the old program and there are no changes to the number of transfer credits applied to the new program of study,
SAP standing remains the same. If WGU awards additional or removes transfer credits to align with the new program of
study, the student’s SAP status may be affected. If the credential level of the new program is different from the old
program (e.g., bachelor’s degree program into master’s degree program or vice versa), the student will begin as a first
term student with a new SAP history. A change in program of study will not affect a student's SAP standing provided the
new program is in the same grade level as the old program and transfer credit is not added or removed.
For catalog changes, the SAP standing remains the same if the latest version does not increase the number of required
CUs to complete the program. Changes to the number of CUs required to complete the program may affect the SAP
standing.
Students requesting readmission into WGU will return with the SAP status calculated at the time of withdrawal unless the
program change or catalog change policy applies.
For more information on program changes, catalog changes, grade changes, multiple programs, and stacked degree and
credential programs, please refer to the student handbook using the SAP link above.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 30
Financial Aid Warning
Students are required to complete at least one course and achieve a cumulative completion rate of at least 66.67% at the
end of each term.
Students who fail to maintain SAP are placed on warning and may be terminated from federal financial aid eligibility
according to the following criteria:
• Students who finish their term with a cumulative SAP of less than 66.67% and do not complete at least one course
are terminated from federal financial aid.
• Students who finish their term with a cumulative SAP of at least 66.67% (due to earned CUs in the prior term
including transfer credits from another school), but do not complete at least one course are terminated from
federal financial aid.
• Students who finish their term with a cumulative SAP of less than 66.67% but complete at least one course are
placed on warning for the subsequent term and remain eligible for federal student aid.
• Students in a warning term who end the warning term with a cumulative completion rate below 66.67% SAP are
terminated from federal financial aid eligibility.
• Students in a warning term who complete at least one course and achieve a cumulative completion rate of at least
66.67% are returned to good academic standing.
Students who are terminated from financial aid eligibility may continue their studies at WGU but are required to self-pay
and make payment arrangements through the Student Accounts office.
In the case of extenuating circumstances, students may appeal their termination status to the Financial Aid Appeal
Committee. Please refer to the student handbook (see SAP link above) for instructions regarding financial aid termination
and appeal, financial aid probation, and financial aid reinstatement.
Student Notification
The university notifies students of the results of any SAP evaluation affecting the eligibility for FSA funds for the entire
payment period.
Scholarship and Grant Recipients
Most scholarships and grants do not allow for a warning term. Failure to meet SAP in any given term can result in
termination of scholarship or grant funds. Please refer to the scholarship or grant materials or contact the scholarship
department at scholarships@wgu.edu for additional information.
Scholarships
Scholarship awards issued by Western Governors University are financial awards provided to students to help them meet
a portion of their tuition costs. Awards are limited to the amount of each scholarship, and depending on the amount, the
scholarship may or may not cover all tuition and fees. Students are responsible for paying any tuition charges not
covered by their scholarship. Unused scholarship monies will not be refunded to students.
Scholarship terms - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Financial-Services/Scholarship-Terms-and-Conditions/ta-p/67
Scholarship list - https://www.wgu.edu/financial-aid-tuition/scholarships.html
Refund and Cancellation Policy
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Institutional-Withdrawal-Refund-Policy/ta-p/87
Students who withdraw within three business days from their first term start date are eligible for a full refund including all
tuition and fees paid, minus the student’s application fee.
The following students are eligible for a refund of a prorated portion of tuition:
• Students who have an effective withdrawal date after three business days from their first term start date, but
before the completion of 60% of a term.
• Students who are in any term other than their first term and have an effective withdrawal date before completion of
60% of a term.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 31
Students with a withdrawal date occurring after 60% of the term is completed are not eligible for a refund. The admission
application fee, resource fee, and program specific fees are non-refundable for effective withdrawal occurring after the
first three business days of a student’s first term start date.
Determining Withdrawal Dates
Withdrawal dates are determined in two ways, either through official withdrawal or through administrative withdrawal.
Official withdrawal is a student’s voluntary withdrawal due to inability to continue their studies at WGU regardless of the
cause of such inability. Administrative withdrawal is the involuntary dismissal from WGU due to failure to meet academic
or other requirements.
Official withdrawal: The withdrawal date is the date a student notifies the university of their final decision for withdrawal.
Administrative withdrawal: The withdrawal date is the last date of the student’s academic activity within an enrolled term.
Calculating the Refund
WGU will calculate the refund for students who withdraw pursuant to the policies listed above in this section using the
following formula:
• The number of calendar days from the official term start date to the withdrawal date, divided by the total number of
calendar days in the term.
• WGU calculates the amount of the tuition refund by multiplying tuition billed for the term (less any tuition
discounts) by the percentage of the term the student was not enrolled, and subtracting the amount of tuition
already paid. For example, a student who withdraws halfway (50%) through a term and has paid $2000 of a $3000
total tuition charge would be entitled to a refund of $500 (($3000 * 50%) - $2000 = $500)).
• The resource fee and other program specific fees are non-refundable.
Refunds
Once WGU calculates tuition charges and determines eligibility for a refund, the Bursar office processes refunds within
30 days as applicable. In the case of financial aid recipients, WGU is required to return unearned financial aid to the
appropriate grant or loan program based on the Return of Title IV Financial Aid funds calculation. As a result of this
calculation, students may owe WGU a portion of tuition and fees. Refund methods default to a mailed check. Students
are encouraged to set up their preferred refund method.
All funding sources (i.e., internal and external scholarships, waivers, discounts and grants) will be reviewed and may be
subject to a proration calculation. In the case of third-party funds, i.e., employer contributions, government funding,
military payments, etc., if the payment exceeds tuition and fees, WGU will follow any instructions provided by the original
payer for the appropriate handling of the refund. If no instructions are provided, the refund will be processed to the
original payer. Students are responsible for any portion of the tuition and fees owed, after refunds to all payers.
Tuition Appeal
In the case of exceptional circumstances where students are not entitled to a refund under the policies outlined above,
students may make an appeal for tuition considerations by submitting a formal complaint containing a written explanation
of circumstances that warrant an exception to the published refund policy. Exceptional circumstances might include
incapacitating illness or injury. Supporting documentation to verify exceptional circumstances is required. Disciplinary
action imposed on a student due to violations of the Code of Student Conduct is not considered valid grounds for tuition
appeal. For more information, visit https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Student-Complaint-and-
Grievance-Policy/ta-p/194.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 32
Academic Policies
Credit Transfer Guidelines
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers.html
WGU does not grant credit for prior training or experience. However, students who enter with significant experience in
their field of study may be able to pass some of the required WGU assessments on an accelerated schedule. Transfer
guidelines are described below in excerpts from the WGU website and Student Handbook.
General Transfer Guidelines
Students that have taken courses or received a degree from a community college or another college or university are
likely already well on their way to a WGU degree. Students can almost always transfer credits when they send accredited
bachelor's or associate degree transcripts.
WGU offers a free transcript service to help students gather and submit transcripts. During the application, students will
be asked if they would like to opt-in to this service, and have their transcripts gathered and sent from participating
institutions.
For applicants that opt out of the free transcript service or if a school does not participate, official transcripts should be
mailed directly from transferring colleges to the WGU Transcripts Department. A student’s copy of their transcript is not
considered official unless it is sealed. Applicants should order official transcripts promptly, as they can take a few weeks
to arrive. Transcripts should be received by the fifth of the month prior to the intended start date.
The process for requesting and sending transcripts from previously attended institutions is described on the WGU
website: https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/transfer-to-wgu.html.
In order to have WGU complete an official transcript evaluation, applicants must complete the online application form,
pay the application fee, have a WGU issued ID, and WGU must have received official transcripts from the institution(s) at
which the applicant earned the credit or applicants must work with their Enrollment Counselor to mark their previously
attended institutions as not expected/excluded.
In order to ensure that WGU grants all transfer credit that the applicant is due and places the applicant appropriately in
their program, WGU recommends that applicants submit all transcripts from their previously attended institutions. WGU
does not perform unofficial evaluations or accept unofficial transcripts. WGU does not award transfer credit after the
student’s initial term start date, once a student begins studies at WGU.
Applicants may transfer credit up to and not exceeding 75 percent of their program. WGU determines the maximum
amount of credit an applicant may be able to transfer on a programmatic basis.
WGU conducts official transcript evaluations during the month prior to the applicant’s start date. WGU processes
transcripts in the order it receives them. Applicants should contact their Enrollment Counselor if it has been more than 15
business days since WGU received their transcripts and the applicant does not have a completed evaluation.
For more information on transfer policies, see https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Undergraduate-
Transfer-Credit/ta-p/49140.
For specific program transfer guidelines, see https://partners.wgu.edu/general-transfer-guidelines.
Transferring from a Community College
WGU maintains relations with many community colleges throughout the United States. Students transferring from a U.S.
community college can expect a comprehensive transfer policy. Information about community college transfers is
available at https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/transfer-to-wgu.html and https://partners.wgu.edu.
Transferring from WGU
WGU students who may be interested in transferring to another institution, either before or after completing their studies
at WGU, should keep in mind the following points:
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 33
• All institutions reserve the right to determine their own transfer policies, and not all academic work completed at
one institution may transfer to another.
• Students should check the transfer policies at the institution or institutions they are considering by consulting with
the admissions or registrar office at those institution(s).
• Students who transfer should request that the WGU registrar send an official academic transcript of their WGU
transfer credits and academic work to the institution(s) where they are applying for admission.
• The WGU academic transcript will note subject areas (domains) that were successfully completed. WGU transfer
credits and equivalencies for the completed domains will be listed.
For more information, see https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/transfers/wgu-transcript-request.html.
Term Registration and Enrollment
WGU starts a new term on the first day of every month and the duration is six calendar months in length. Students may
only be enrolled in a single term and are considered enrolled and active once term enrollment has been established.
Students register prior to a term by working with their Program Mentor to set a plan of courses to be completed. Students
then accept enrollment for the term on or after the first day of the new term. The term enrollment process is important
because by accepting enrollment, the student is agreeing to pay tuition in full, complete the courses by the end of the
term, and adhere to the Academic Activity Policy.
As part of the term planning process, the student will complete the course planning tool for each course for which they
are planning to register. During term registration, the student and Program Mentor will use the course planning tool
report, as well as information about the student's schedule and needs, to make a Term Plan that includes start and end
dates for each course in the term. The student will select these dates with their Program Mentor to help set a pace that
will ensure the student can complete the enrolled courses by the end of the term. Because starting courses in a timely
fashion is essential to staying on pace, each student should work with their Program Mentor to set a Term Plan and
accept enrollment by the 7th day of each term.
Term enrollment must be completed no later than the 10th day of the start of the term for continuing students and the
20th day of the start of the term for new students. Students who do not complete registration and enrollment for the new
term by these deadlines are administratively withdrawn from the university. First term students must also complete one of
the First Term Critical Actions within 45 days of the start of their first term to avoid administrative withdrawal. Once term
enrollment is established, students are considered enrolled for the term and are responsible for tuition charges. Once
students have enrolled in a term, they are committed to the courses and changes to enrollment will not be processed.
Academic Activity Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Academic-Activity-Policy/ta-p/11641
Course Planning Tool - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Course-Planning-Tool/ta-p/18853
First Term Critical Actions - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989
Working Ahead or Accelerating Courses
Students may accelerate their studies by adding courses to their active program to the term once they have successfully
completed all term requirements (original term enrollment). Students who choose to add additional courses to a term
should discuss course acceleration in detail with their Program Mentor. Students should complete the course planning
tool for a course before accelerating the course.
Marks of Not Passed
Students are responsible for making sure they complete all courses for which they are enrolled in a term. A mark of Not
Passed becomes part of the permanent academic record and transcript for all enrolled courses that are not attempted,
not completed and not passed. A mark of Not Passed will count against satisfactory academic progress. Refer to the
Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy and the Incomplete Course Policy. A student’s academic history will not be
altered due to changes in program or course updates. Any changes or updates to the degree plan due to a program
change or course change does not negate the student’s responsibility to complete all courses in term enrollment.
Courses appearing on the transcript as Not Passed will not be altered should a student decide to pursue a program
change or course update. Some academic changes may result in a permanent unresolved Not Passed on a student’s
academic history and WGU transcript.
SAP Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Satisfactory-Academic-Progress-SAP/ta-p/140
Incomplete Course Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Registration-Student-Records/Incomplete-Course-Policy/ta-p/82
Accelerated Courses Policy - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Accelerated-Courses/ta-p/18850
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 34
Passing Vendor Assessments/Certifications not Enrolled in Current Term
Students who attempt and pass a course with a vendor assessment(s)/certification(s) without enrolling in that course in
the term shall receive the grade of ‘Requirement Satisfied’ (RS). Students who attempt a course-related vendor
assessment(s)/certification(s), or take any other third-party assessment (e.g. PRAXIS) without course enrollment and/or
referral through WGU’s assessment scheduling procedures will not have the cost of the exam/voucher(s) paid nor
reimbursed by WGU.
Attendance Policy
WGU does not have an institutional attendance policy. Progress is governed by successfully completing assessments
that demonstrate mastery of the required competencies. Students engage in a variety of learning resources to build
competence and prepare for the assessments. In most cases, these learning materials are independent learning
resources such as textbooks, e-learning modules, study guides, simulations, virtual labs, and tutorials.
Communication Plan
WGU programs are designed for students to have timely, intentional interactions with faculty. A personalized
communication and support plan outlines when and how students will interact with faculty and other members of the
Community of Care at WGU. The information below explains the faculty support students will have and how they will
create and modify a personalized communication and support plan to help them stay on track to meet their goals.
WGU is dedicated to student success and wants students to have the faculty support they need when they need it.
Program Mentors and Instructors will provide regular and proactive personalized support based on a student’s needs.
Students and their Program Mentor will collaborate to incorporate individual needs and goals into the academic plan.
Program Mentors help students reach their educational goals by providing support with
• academic planning and pacing,
• coaching through obstacles, and
• instruction that connects program competencies to career goals.
Instructors provide personalized course pacing, planning, and instructional support throughout each course. Students
and Instructors will collaborate to help students
• build course-based competency,
• implement course-specific success strategies, and
• progress through each course according to the personalized academic plan.
A critical component to success at WGU is the personalized communication and support plan. Students and their
Program Mentor will use the student’s goals, activities, learning, and academic progress to build a plan for faculty
interaction that supports timely engagement and progress.
Working toward a degree is exciting, but for most students, it's also a journey that will take a year or more. Students are
more likely to achieve a big, long-term goal when they identify regular, periodic milestones along the way. WGU students
are most successful when they make steady progress throughout each term, and the communication and support plan
will help students stay on track. By collaborating with faculty members, students maximize their ability to succeed in
multiple ways:
• They will always know the most efficient and effective path forward, so they don't waste time trying to figure out
what to do next.
• They will build a solid network of expert partners who can help them navigate any challenges that come up.
• They will get their money's worth by taking full advantage of all the support and resources their tuition pays for.
At the start of each term, students will work with their Program Mentor to create a personalized communication and
support plan. When they create their plan with their Program Mentor, they will identify when and how they will interact
with their Program Mentor, Instructors, and other members of the Community of Care as needed. The frequency, timing,
and format of interactions in any term will depend on the student’s goals, progress, and individual needs. Throughout the
term, students and their Program Mentor will review the communication and support plan to make sure it is still helping
them progress toward their goals and engage regularly in their studies. As students learn what works well for them and
what support they need, they will modify the plan as needed. The communication and support plan is personalized to the
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 35
student, so it won't be the same as another student's plan. The best plan is the one that helps students make consistent
progress, demonstrate regular academic activity, and meet their academic goals.
More information on the Communication Plan is available in the student handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Information-
Resources/Communication-Plan/ta-p/99.
Academic Progress
Western Governors University helps students achieve their dreams for a degree and career success by providing a
personalized, flexible, and affordable education based upon real-world competencies. WGU takes an active interest in
students' progress through their academic programs and requires students to make measurable advancement toward
completion of their degree program each term. With this in mind, the university has established the following policies:
On-Time Progress (OTP): Students completing within the term, a minimum of 12 competency units (CUs) at the
undergraduate level, and 8 competency units at the graduate level, are considered to be making on-time progress toward
graduation.
Lack of Progress: (For terms that end on or after June 2025) WGU will administratively withdraw any student from the
university at the end of a term if they complete zero competency units.
Academic Progress Appeals: If a student desires to be considered for continued enrollment after completing zero
cumulative CUs in a term, the student must submit an appeal. Appeals must be received within the appeal window (see
link below). Students who fail to appeal within the designated time frame or whose appeal is denied may be eligible to
return via the standard readmission process. WGU does not guarantee continued enrollment or readmission.
Academic Progress and Appeals - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Academic-Progress/ta-p/52
Withdrawal from WGU - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Withdrawal-from-WGU/ta-p/84
Readmission Following Withdrawal - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Admission/Readmission-Following-Withdrawal/ta-p/143
Academic Activity Policy
In addition to the requirements of the Academic Progress policy, students are expected to demonstrate consistent
engagement with their studies throughout each academic term. Activities demonstrating academic engagement include:
• Academic discussion with faculty
• Completing course planning tools
• Activating a course by clicking the Start Course button
• Setting term enrollment
• Completing pre-assessments
• Completing objective assessments
• Submitting a performance assessment task for evaluation
• Attending a faculty-led live event, such as a webinar
• Use of course learning resources
• Viewing recorded faculty-led live events
• Viewing a course-related academic video
Students who are not academically engaged for a period of 14 days may be required to meet with their Program Mentor
to develop a plan for the immediate resumption of their studies, to include reengagement with course learning resources
and/or meeting with an Instructor. Students who demonstrate 28 days of inactivity will be subject to administrative
withdrawal. An academically inactive student will be notified prior to withdrawal.
First-Term Critical Actions
First-Term Critical Actions are academic activities that are highly correlated with student success in the first term (and
each successive term). *New students accordingly, are required to engage in at least one of the following academic
activities in at least one registered course during the first 45 days of their first term:
• Completion of a Preassessment
• Completion of an Objective Assessment
• Submission of a Performance Assessment Task
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 36
Note: If a performance assessment task is returned without an evaluation (as expressed in a comment accompanying the
returned task), the submission does not count as a Critical Action. If an evaluation is completed, the submission will
count as a Critical Action whether the submission passes or is returned for revision. If a task is subject to an Academic
Authenticity evaluation, a case-by-case determination may occur on whether the submission will count.
*Readmission students or Continuing Graduates are not considered new students and this policy does not apply.
Students who do not complete at least one of the requirements listed above will be administratively withdrawn after the
45th day and will receive a prorated tuition refund in accordance with WGU’s Refund Policy. Any activity that occurs
before the first day of the term or after the 45th day cannot be considered a Critical Action. Students administratively
withdrawn under this policy will receive the transcript notation of ''Dropped'' on all registered courses.
Students will receive multiple email notifications if they are approaching the Critical Action deadline. Appeal information is
available at https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/First-Term-Critical-Actions/ta-p/11989.
WGU Grading System
WGU Transcripts include the following possible marks:
• Pass: Certifies successful completion of a course of study. A student has demonstrated required competencies by
passing the final assessment with a grade equivalent of B or better or 3.00 grade points on a 4.00 scale.
• Not Passed: Indicates the student did not complete the required assessment(s) to demonstrate competency
before the end of the term.
• Requirement Satisfied: Recognizes that a student has satisfied the requirements of a course of study through
alternate coursework that may not be directly transferred.
• Transfer: Signifies that the student has completed equivalent coursework or holds certifications or licenses that
comply with WGU transfer credit policies.
• Withdrawn: Represents that the student was withdrawn from WGU or a course before term completion.
• Dropped: Verifies that the course was dropped from term registration and is not included in attempted units.
• Incomplete: Indicates an arrangement between WGU and the student to complete the course before an agreed
upon, later date. The student has not completed the entirety of the coursework and/or the final assessment has
been deferred.
• In Progress: Indicates a course was not completed within the term because the course, by design, requires a fixed
period of time, more than one term to be completed, and/or is not intended to be bound by the term structure of
WGU.
The university does not calculate a grade point average (GPA), but its grading scheme means students receive between
a 3.0 and 4.0 on a 4.0-scale.
WGU enters grades on transcripts upon completion of a course of study. A course of study In Progress will not appear on
the transcript until the end of a Term. Students receive a grade of Pass, Not Passed, In Progress, Dropped or Withdrawn
on their permanent academic record and transcript for any course(s) of study for which they enroll in a Term, regardless
of whether they attempt an assessment. WGU will not replace an earned Pass or Not Passed with a grade of Withdrawn.
WGU counts grades of Not Passed and Withdrawn as units not completed and, as such, these grades count against
satisfactory academic progress.
Degree Plan
The degree plan, accessed via the my.wgu.edu student portal, serves as a student's blueprint of program requirements
(often called the standard path) and associated learning resources. The degree plan outlines a student's course and non-
course requirements in their program and allows students and Program Mentors to work together in planning the path to
graduation. The degree plan displays the course details (including course name, course code, complete or not yet
complete status, number of competency units, and the assessment type) and start and end dates for registered courses.
The student degree plan lists the courses of study, including assessments, required to complete an academic program.
Students access learning resources and make requests to schedule Objective Assessments or begin Performance
Assessments inside the online version of a course of study.
The standard path through a student's degree plan may be adjusted by the student and Program Mentor to meet the
student's individual needs during term enrollment. Some programs allow substantial reordering of the standard path, but
others do not allow any modification.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 37
WGU starts a new term on the first day of every month. Each term is six calendar months in duration. Students may not
be enrolled in multiple terms simultaneously. A student may not enroll in a new term until at least six months after the
start of their most recent enrolled term. A student who graduates, changes programs, or withdraws from WGU will not be
able to start a new term until at least six months after the start date of their most recent enrolled term.
Once term enrollment is complete courses shall not be removed except with the approval of the Office of the Registrar.
Students may add courses to the term in accordance with the Accelerated Courses policy (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-
Student-Policy-Handbook/Accelerated-Courses/ta-p/18850).
By registering for a course, the student agrees to work on and complete the course within the term. Students should be
prepared to engage in and pass all courses for which they enroll. A course that is not passed by the end of the term will
be listed as ''Not Passed'' on the academic transcript. This includes courses for which the student did not attempt the
assessment by the end of the term.
Term enrollment should take place within the first ten days of the start of a new term. Students must be enrolled at least
full time (12 competency units for undergraduate students and 8 for graduate students). Students who do not complete
full-time registration and enrollment for the new term by the 25th of the first month of their term are administratively
withdrawn from WGU.
For more information on degree plans, visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/degree-plan.html or for
assessments, visit https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/student-experience/assessments.html.
Courses of Study
The degree plan lists the courses of study required to complete an academic program. A course of study is comprised of
five important aspects:
• Defined competencies students are required to demonstrate
• Learning resources needed to gain the competencies
• Contact information for Instructors to support student development of the competencies
• A learning community centered on the competencies
• The assessments of the competencies
Each course of study is assigned a number of competency units (CUs).
Learning Unit
One (1) competency unit (CU) is equivalent to one (1) semester credit of learning. A CU is the value assigned to each
assessment to permit tracking of academic progress. Traditional classroom learning is based on the Carnegie Unit where
a credit hour is the equivalent of one clock hour of learning (generally considered 50 lecture minutes) per week over the
course of a 15-week semester. WGU competency units (CUs) are equivalent to semester hours at other institutions. For
example, one (1) CU equals one (1) semester hour of credit. In other terms, using the metric of three (3) semester hours
equaling 45 clock hours, one (1) CU is the equivalent of 15 clock hours. This equivalency has been accepted by our
external regulators and by other universities (for transfer of credits). WGU transcripts show the number of CUs assigned
to each course.
Term Enrollment
Term enrollment is the process of choosing courses and verifying enrollment for the term of study. During term
enrollment, students and their Program Mentor will map out which assessments to complete and the time frame in which
to do so by established start and end dates. Program Mentors will schedule at least the minimum number of competency
units required for full-time enrollment (12 units for undergraduate students, 8 units for graduate students). On-time
progress is based on how term enrollment is set each term.
Start and End Dates
To help students plan their progress through the term and to set a study schedule and calendar, students and their
Program Mentors will set start and end dates for each course. With these dates, students can plan how to accelerate or
where to spend more time in getting ready to demonstrate competency in an assessment area.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 38
Computer Requirements
Students should use the following technical requirements to guide their selection of a technology package for use during
their academic program at WGU. Systems purchased new within the past two years will typically come with the following
recommended features. Students can check the technical readiness of their computer system by using the WGU System
Check tool to ensure they meet university requirements.
https://www.wgu.edu/admissions/computer-requirements.html
Hardware Requirements - To use WGU's online systems, a student must have a computer with the following:
• Device Type - personal (not business or school)
• CPU - at least 4 cores at 2.4 GHz (minimum)
• RAM - 8 GB (minimum), 16 GB (recommended)
• Free internal storage space - at least 20 GB
• Built-in or external speakers (Hard-wired or Bluetooth speakers are acceptable. Headphones are not allowed to be
used during a proctored online objective assessment.)
• See the additional system requirements section for additional Meazure Learning online proctoring requirements
• Additional requirements for the School of Technology are listed in the student handbook
(https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-Requirements/Computer-System-and-Technology-Requirements/ta-p/78)
Network Requirements - To use WGU's online system, a student must have access to a network with the following:
• Network Type - personal (not business or public)
• Network Speed - download/upload 5 Mbps (minimum), 20 Mbps (recommended), mobile hotspots and tethering
are highly discouraged for testing purposes
Fully Supported Operating Systems - These operating systems are thoroughly tested to be compatible with all WGU
content and are required for proctored online objective assessments:
• Windows 10 or higher - Microsoft will stop supporting Windows 10 in October 2025. Students should ensure their
computers are compatible with Windows 11 after that date. Students should contact a local computer support
vendor for further support, as the WGU Service Desk cannot help upgrade the operating system.
• macOS 13 Ventura or higher
Partially Supported Operating Systems - These operating systems will work with most WGU content, but some features
and applications may require a fully supported operating system from the list above. They are prohibited during proctored
online objective assessments.
• Android version 8 or higher
• iOS/iPadOS version 16 or higher
Unsupported Operating Systems - These operating systems may not be compatible with WGU content and are prohibited
during proctored online objective assessments. WGU support teams cannot provide support for issues encountered while
using them.
• Windows in S Mode (Windows 11 S or Windows 10 S)
• Chrome OS
• Linux / Unix
• Surface RT / Windows on Arm
• Virtual Machines / Containers
Software Requirements:
• Microsoft 365 - using the license and software suite provided by WGU for all students, which is required for
submitting most performance assessments unless otherwise specified.
• WGU recommends all students have an up-to-date antivirus program.
• Grammarly for Education - using the license provided by WGU for all students.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 39
Additional System Requirements for Online Proctored (OLP) Assessments with Meazure Learning:
• USB port or USB-compatible dongle adapter
• CPU Usage Below: 85%
• RAM Usage Below: 95%
• Network Speed: 5Mbs Upload, 5Mbs Download (Mobile Hotspots and Tethering are highly discouraged for Testing
Purposes)
• Guardian Browser
• Monitor Count 1 (unless you have existing accommodations)
• Monitor Resolution: 1366x768 (minimum)
• Monitor Height and Width: 640px (minimum)
• Ports Open UDP/TCP 80; UDP/TCP 443
Supported Internet Browsers - WGU strongly encourages up-to-date browser versions that incorporate security fixes and
newer technologies, resulting in better user experiences. In addition, WGU does not support any browser that is not
explicitly listed below.
• Microsoft Edge: Version 122 or higher
• Mozilla Firefox: Version 125 or higher
• Google Chrome or Chromium: Version 120 or higher (browser download required for WGU-proctored online
objective assessments)
• Safari on macOS (Maci/X12): Version 17 or higher
• Opera (OPR): Version 107 or higher
• iOS (CPU OS, iPhone OS, CPU iPhone, CPU iPad OS): Version 17 or higher
• Android with Firefox: Version 124 or higher
• Android with Chrome or Chromium: Version 123 or higher
• Guardian Browser (WGU-proctored online objective assessments require the Guardian Browser to be
downloaded)
Multimedia Apps and Plugins - Adobe Reader or PDF reader of choice
External Webcam
Students are required to obtain an external web camera that meets certain technical specifications. A laptop's integrated
camera does not meet these requirements. Cameras MUST BE external and elevated to achieve required viewing angle.
Recommendations and specifications are listed in the student handbook (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Academic-
Requirements/Computer-System-and-Technology-Requirements/ta-p/78).
Additional Technology and Software Recommendations
WGU requires students to use several third-party learning resources. System requirements for these resources vary
widely by program and assessment and may differ significantly from those listed above. Information Technology
students, in particular, may need to install applications requiring a more powerful computer or a specific operating
system. If students are concerned that their computer may not meet the minimum requirements for any third-party
learning resource or specific application in their degree program, they should contact Student Support Services.
Student Accessibility Services
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Services/Policies-and-Procedures-for-Students-with-Disabilities/ta-p/151
Western Governors University is committed to providing equal access to its academic programs to all qualified students.
The University’s Student Accessibility Services supports this commitment by providing support, resources, advocacy,
collaboration, and academic accommodations that conform to federal and state statutes and regulations.
WGU complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the ''ADA''), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other
applicable disability discrimination laws. WGU is committed to providing reasonable accommodation(s) to qualified
disabled applicants and learners in WGU programs and activities as required by applicable law.
The determination of reasonable accommodation(s) for qualified students with disabilities, and compliance with the ADA
and the Rehabilitation Act, are the responsibility of WGU Student Accessibility Services. Student Accessibility Services is
the principal point of contact for all students with disability questions or concerns (ADAsupport@wgu.edu).
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 40
WGU encourages current and prospective students needing accommodation(s) and/or resources to contact Student
Accessibility Services for assistance. Student Accessibility Services will respond to requests for accommodation(s) in
accordance with the Policies and Procedures for Students with Disabilities published in the student handbook.
WGU complies with applicable laws concerning the confidentiality of disability-related health information and it is
committed to ensuring that all information regarding student health remains appropriately confidential; only Student
Accessibility Services has access to student health information. Student Accessibility Services retains student health and
accommodation information for the length of a student’s enrollment at WGU. If a student wishes to have a record deleted
during their enrollment, they must send a written request to Student Accessibility Services. Students may authorize the
release of disability information to people or organizations outside of WGU. Before providing such authorization, students
should understand the nature of the information to be released and the purpose. WGU may infrequently be required by
law to disclose disability information without student consent.
Student Complaint Process
The student complaint policy provides guidance on proper avenues for addressing university-related concerns. A
complaint is an expression of dissatisfaction arising from a student’s experience with or treatment by university personnel
or policies. A grievance is a complaint based on a perceived unfairness or discrimination. Academic and financial appeals
(i.e. issues related to competency assessments, academic progress, academic outcomes, financial aid, payments, etc.)
are NOT considered complaints and should be handled through the processes published by the relevant departments.
Please see the student handbook article on Academic and Financial Appeals Information for a listing of university
appeals processes (https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Academic-and-Financial-Appeals-
Information/ta-p/19084).
If a complaint involves any type of alleged discrimination or harassment in violation of the WGU Equal Opportunity,
Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes or the student wishes to remain anonymous, the
student or any other offended party may immediately make a formal complaint to the Title IX Coordinator per the process
outlined in the policy or through Speak Up WGU™.
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Equal-Opportunity-Harassment-and-Nondiscrimination-Policy-
and/ta-p/30767
Speak Up WGU™ online reporting site: www.speakupwgu.ethicspoint.com
Speak Up WGU™ hotline number: 1-(844) 838-1102
The full complaint policy (with information on student ombuds, informal complaints, formal complaints) can be viewed
here: https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Student-Rights-Responsibilities/Student-Complaint-and-Grievance-Policy/ta-p/194
Academic Authenticity
Academic Authenticity is fundamental to the educational process and the assurance of credential integrity at Western
Governors University (WGU). WGU holds that respect for ideas and intellectual property rights is critical to academic
success. Therefore, this policy establishes the expectations and standards of Academic Authenticity for WGU students.
This policy applies to all WGU students regardless of location.
Academic Authenticity means the ethical completion of WGU coursework. Examples include appropriately attributing text,
pictures, tables, and graphs used in coursework to the creators and each student completing their own coursework,
including not submitting work generated by artificial intelligence (AI) as the student’s own work.
All members of the WGU community share the responsibility of ensuring that community members, particularly students,
observe the authentic expression of ideas. Examples of Academic Authenticity include but are not limited to:
• Attributing text, pictures, tables, and graphs used in coursework to their creators.
• Giving credit to all sources used, including WGU-provided course materials and the student’s own work used as a
source.
• Appropriately paraphrasing and/or synthesizing sources.
• Completing assessments independently and honestly to verify individual competency.
WGU expects all students to abide by the following requirements related to Academic Authenticity:
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 41
Intellectual Property
• Students may not use any WGU assessment answers or other assessment content found, requested, shared, or
purchased on the internet (or elsewhere) to complete their own work. This includes, but is not limited to, using
answers to assessment questions or projects completed by someone else and passing, or attempting to pass,
those answers and projects off as the students’ own work.
• Similarly, active students may not share responses to assessments or projects, including by uploading work on
tutoring websites or social media, except as authorized by specific programs for portfolio-building purposes.
• Students may not copy, record, or disclose WGU assessment, course, project, or learning materials to anyone
else. This includes copying for personal use and disclosing on websites, blogs, and other social media. Students’
final work-product developed in relation to projects may fall under the portfolio exception listed below.
• Students may use capstone projects as source materials so long as they properly cite the source. However,
students may not use any previously completed capstone project from another WGU degree or another institution
as the final submission of a capstone project for a different degree program in which the student is currently
enrolled.
• Students may consent to have their capstone work archived for restricted view by other students and alumni. They
may also use and repurpose their capstone and other performance tasks for use when they graduate as an
electronic portfolio in furtherance of their professional careers or as an achievement on an academic resume, with
care not to violate rules above.
• Any sources used by students in their coursework must be academic in nature and cited properly.
Assessments
• Unless official WGU instructions direct otherwise, assessments and projects must be the student’s own individual
work. Students shall not engage in unauthorized collaborative efforts in the creation, completion, submission, or
revision of assessments. This includes working with other students or using AI-generated content unless official
WGU instructions direct otherwise. All students must demonstrate competency in their own work.
• With the exception of capstone archives, students may not read, or review completed assessments for the
purpose of generating thought, comparing how other students addressed the task, reviewing references, or any
other reason.
• Students shall not falsify or misrepresent information submitted to meet the requirement of any assessment.
• Objective Assessment:
◦ WGU may record all proctored objective assessments. When taking a proctored WGU assessment, the
student may not access any device or material not specifically approved in advance nor communicate with
anyone except the proctor. This includes, but is not limited to: highlighting material during the assessment,
running unapproved software or programs, and accessing the internet to search for related materials or
definitions.
◦ Students shall not read questions aloud.
◦ All audio and video equipment must be in working order.
◦ WGU requires the student, including hands and arms, to remain in the view of the proctor at all times.
Performance Assessment
• If students use material from any appropriate source, the student must provide attribution to that source. Examples
of appropriate sources include, but are not limited to, course-provided content, books, scholarly journals, and
online encyclopedias. Students found to be in violation may be subject to sanctions.
• Students must only submit files that WGU can scan through the Similarity Checker unless indicated otherwise by
the task directions. Students should only submit handwritten documents and pictures during an Evaluation if the
task directions specifically call for submission of that file type.
• To protect each student’s identity, WGU encourages (but does not require) students to remove all personally
identifiable information, such as phone numbers and addresses, from each submission.
• WGU will store a copy of all submitted work to prevent its use in future submissions.
The Student Code of Conduct defines violations of this policy as ''cheating,'' which is subject to sanctions up to and
including expulsion from WGU. WGU may block student access to assessment scheduling or task submission while an
investigation of alleged violations of this policy is underway.
University procedures relating to Academic Authenticy are listed in the student handbook - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-
Student-Policy-Handbook/Academic-Authenticity/ta-p/128.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 42
Student Code of Conduct
PURPOSE
Western Governors University (WGU) holds the belief that respect for individuals, ideas, and the authenticity of Student
work are all critical to a thriving society. Accordingly, WGU maintains that all members of the WGU Community have a
shared responsibility for ethical, responsible, and respectful behavior and should comply with all applicable laws in
addition to the standards WGU has set forth in this Student Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct). This Policy applies to all
WGU Students and persons enrolled in WGU courses or offerings.
DEFINITIONS
1. Academic Record: Information relating to a student’s academic performance including transcripts, narrative notes
of the student’s academic progress as documented by the student’s program mentor(s) and course instructor(s),
assessment and evaluation results, external exam scores, and results of any academic appeals filed by the
student.
2. Accused Student: Any Student accused of violating this Student Code of Conduct.
3. Appellate Board: A panel authorized by the Student Conduct Manager to evaluate a student’s appeal of any
Student Conduct Board outcome.
4. Complainant: Any person who submits a complaint alleging that a student violated a Policy.
5. Disciplinary Record: A statement of complaints, summary of information considered by or presented to the Student
Conduct Board, findings or sanctions, records of appeals, and rationale for the decisions when the student is
found responsible for the alleged infraction(s).
6. Education Records: Broadly defined to include all records directly related to a student which are protected from
disclosure under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Disciplinary Records and Academic
Records are considered Education Records and, as a result, are kept confidential in accordance with applicable
law.
7. Harassment: Any unwelcome verbal, physical, written, electronic, or non-verbal conduct (whether directly,
indirectly, or through a third party) based on that person’s inclusion in one or more protected classes that is
sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive to alter the conditions of employment of an employee or to limit,
interfere with, or deny educational benefits or opportunities of a Student, from both a subjective and objective
viewpoint based on a totality of the circumstances. The circumstances establishing potential Harassment may
include the frequency and severity of the conduct, whether the conduct was physically threatening or humiliating,
the effect of the conduct on the individual’s mental or emotional state, whether the conduct was directed at more
than one person, whether the conduct arose in the context of other discriminatory conduct, and whether the
speech or conduct deserves the protections of academic freedom.
8. Identity Misrepresentation: The use of false, stolen, or borrowed identification materials (e.g., driver’s license) to
obtain admission to WGU or access to student financial aid or WGU programs, assessments, or other activities.
9. Policy: The approved written standards, requirements, restrictions, rights, or responsibilities and courses of action
that guide decision making and determine behavior relevant to the university community necessary for
accomplishing business of the university. These items are stored in several locations including, but not limited to
the WGU Student Handbook including this Student Code of Conduct and any Student handbook specific to a
WGU degree program. All WGU Policy is made continuously available to Students on the University’s website.
10. Student: All persons in all locations taking courses at WGU either full time or part time, pursuing undergraduate,
graduate, or professional studies or those in a term break status. Persons who withdraw after allegedly violating
the Student Code of Conduct and those who are not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a
continuing relationship with WGU are also considered Students.
11. Student Conduct Board (Board): A panel of persons authorized and trained by the Student Conduct Manager to
determine whether a student has violated the Code of Conduct and to decide sanctions that WGU may impose
when a student has committed a violation.
12. Student Conduct Manager (Manager): The person designated by WGU to be responsible for the administration of
the Student Code of Conduct.
13. Student Conduct Officer (Officer): A WGU Employee authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Student Conduct
Manager to investigate complaints, adjudicate administrative resolutions, advise the Student Conduct Board, and
carry out sanctions as directed by the Student Conduct Board.
14. WGU Community: All WGU employees, Students, and other stakeholders who participate in WGU business,
academic, or other activities.
15. WGU Premises: All land, buildings, facilities, portals, communities, and other property, whether online or physical,
in the possession of or owned, used, or controlled by WGU.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 43
POLICY
Student Code Authority
1. The Student Conduct Manager shall determine the composition of the Student Conduct Board and Appellate
Boards and determine which Student Conduct Board, Student Conduct Officer (Officer), or Appellate Board shall
be authorized to hear matters brought under this Code of Conduct.
2. The Student Conduct Manager develops the Policies for the administration of the student conduct system as
described herein, and procedural rules for the conduct of Student Conduct Board Hearings in the Procedures
section of this policy.
3. The Student Conduct Board and/or Student Conduct Officer designated by the Student Conduct Manager shall
have decision-making authority on all matters assigned to them.
Jurisdiction of Student Code of Conduct
The Student Code of Conduct shall apply to conduct that adversely affects the WGU Community. Each Student shall be
responsible for the Student’s own conduct from the time of application for admission through the actual awarding of a
degree, even though conduct may occur before courses begin or after courses end, during periods between terms of
actual enrollment, or WGU may not discover the conduct until after it has awarded a degree. The Code of Conduct shall
apply to a Student’s conduct even if the Student withdraws from WGU while a disciplinary matter is pending. The Code of
Conduct governs WGU's Community standards, and each Student is bound by this Code of Conduct by virtue of
engaging with WGU coursework, resources, and systems regardless of whether the Student has formally read or
acknowledged it.
Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes
In addition to the Code of Conduct, all Students at WGU are subject to WGU’s Equal Opportunity, Harassment, and
Nondiscrimination Policy and Grievance Processes (Nondiscrimination Policy). In cases where the provisions in the Code
of Conduct and the provisions in the Nondiscrimination Policy are different or inconsistent, the Nondiscrimination Policy
supersedes.
Prohibited Conduct
Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following misconduct is subject to the
disciplinary sanctions outlined in this Code of Conduct:
1. Acts of dishonesty, including but not limited to the following:
◦ Violations of the Academic Authenticity Policy.
◦ Identity Misrepresentation.
◦ Furnishing false information to any WGU Employee or office.
◦ Forgery, alteration, or misuse of any WGU document, record, or instrument of identification.
2. Disruption or obstruction of advising, facilitation, instruction, research, administration, disciplinary proceedings or
other WGU activity.
3. Unprofessional conduct including Harassment, threatening, bullying or verbal abuse of any member of the WGU
Community by any means (conduct, speech, written notes, electronic communication, etc.), or use of threats,
profanity, and demeaning or intimidating comments.
4. Physical abuse, threats of physical abuse, and/or other conduct which threatens or endangers the health or safety
of any person.
5. Illegal use, possession, or distribution of alcohol or any controlled substance on WGU Premises or at WGU-
sponsored events or educational activities.
6. Attempted or actual theft of and/or damage to property of WGU or property of a member of the WGU Community.
7. Failure to conform to the standards of professional conduct outlined in the Teachers College Professional
Disposition and Ethics, the Leavitt School of Health Code of Professional Conduct and Dispositions, and similar
standards of professional conduct associated with other WGU field experience programs.
8. Violation of any WGU policy.
9. Violation of any federal, state or local law.
10. Illegal or unauthorized possession of firearms, explosives, other weapons, or dangerous chemicals on WGU
premises or use of any such item, even if legally possessed, in a manner that harms, threatens or causes fear to
others.
11. Theft, abuse or misuse of WGU computing, information, and communication systems (''WGU systems'') and/or
protected WGU information, files, and resources (''WGU resources'') including but not limited to:
◦ Unauthorized entry into WGU resources to use, read, or change the contents, or for any other purpose.
◦ Unauthorized transfer of WGU resources.
◦ Use of another individual’s user name and/or password.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 44
◦ Use of WGU systems to interfere with the work of another member of the WGU community.
◦ Use of WGU systems to send obscene or harassing messages.
◦ Interfering with the normal operation of WGU systems and WGU resources.
◦ Use of WGU resources in violation of WGU’s Student License Agreement for use of learning resources.
◦ Unauthorized use of WGU systems and WGU resources to obtain or disclose the personal details of
another member of the WGU community.
◦ Tampering with communications.
12. Abuse of the Student Conduct System, including but not limited to:
◦ Failure to obey a notice from a Student Conduct Officer to appear for a meeting or hearing as part of the
Student Conduct System.
◦ Falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation of information in a Student Conduct proceeding.
◦ Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a Student Conduct Board proceeding.
◦ Initiation of or participation in a Student Conduct proceeding in bad faith.
◦ Attempting to discourage an individual’s proper participation in or use of the Student Conduct system.
◦ Attempting to influence the impartiality of any WGU employee prior to and/or during the course of a Student
Conduct proceeding.
◦ Harassment (verbal, non-verbal, or physical) and/or intimidation of a participant in a Student Conduct
proceeding prior to, during, and/or after a student conduct code proceeding.
◦ Failure to comply with the sanction(s) imposed under the Student Code.
◦ Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse of the Student Code of Conduct
process.
Attempts and Complicity. WGU prohibits attempting to commit acts prohibited by the Code of Conduct and/or knowingly
or willfully encouraging or assisting others to commit any of these acts. WGU will adjudicate attempts and complicity in
the same manner as direct violations.
Violation of Law and WGU Discipline. WGU may institute disciplinary proceedings against a Student whose conduct
potentially violates both the criminal law and the Code of Conduct (if both alleged violations result from the same factual
situation) without regard to the pendency of civil or criminal litigation in court or criminal arrest and prosecution.
Proceedings under this Code of Conduct may continue prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal
proceedings at the discretion of the Student Conduct Manager. Determinations made or sanctions imposed under this
Code of Conduct shall not be subject to change as of result of the dismissal, reduction, or resolution of criminal
complaints arising out of the same facts giving rise to violation of WGU standards.
Any member of the WGU Community may file a complaint against a Student for violations of the Code of Conduct.
PROCEDURES
Complaints and Student Conduct Board Hearings. Individuals must submit an alleged charge(s) in writing to the Student
Conduct Officer in a timely manner (i.e., as soon as is practical and without unnecessary or unreasonable delay) after the
event takes place or they discover the alleged violation. The Student Conduct Board retains the right to review all
documents and information submitted to WGU.
1. The Student Conduct Officer may investigate to determine if the charge(s) has merit and/or if it can be dismissed
administratively by mutual consent of the parties involved and with the approval of the Student Conduct Officer. If
the Student Conduct Officer decides that dismissal for lack of merit is appropriate, the Officer shall deliver a
written explanation of their analysis to the parties to obtain the parties’ consent for dismissal. Such disposition
shall be final and there shall be no subsequent proceedings.
2. If the Accused Student admits to violations described in the complaint, but the parties do not agree on appropriate
sanctions, subsequent procedures, including any hearing, if necessary, shall be limited to determining the
appropriate sanction(s).
3. The Student Conduct Officer, or their designee, shall present all complaints to the Accused Student in written
form. A time shall be set for the Student Conduct Board hearing, not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15)
calendar days after the Officer notifies the Student. The Student Conduct Officer, at their discretion, may extend
the maximum time limits for scheduling of Student Conduct Board hearings.
4. Student Conduct Board hearings shall occur virtually in accordance with the following:
◦ Student Conduct Board hearings shall be closed to public attendees.
◦ The Board shall allow the Complainant, Accused Student, and their advisor(s), if any, to attend the entire
portion of the Student Conduct Board hearing at which the Board receives information (excluding
deliberations). Admission of any other person to the Student Conduct Board Hearing shall be at the
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 45
discretion of the Student Conduct Board and/or its Student Conduct Officer and limited to only persons
necessary to the proceedings.
◦ In Student Conduct Board hearings involving more than one Accused Student, the Student Conduct Officer,
at their discretion, may determine to conduct the Accused Students’ hearings either separately or jointly.
◦ Upon five (5) days advance written notice to the WGU Conduct Office at conductadmin@wgu.edu, the
Complainant and the Accused Student may choose an advisor to assist them in the proceedings. The
advisor must be a member of the WGU Community and may not be acting in the capacity of an attorney. If
the Complainant and/or the Accused Student fail to provide a minimum of five (5) days’ notice, the Student
Conduct Officer may reschedule the Student Conduct Board hearing.
◦ The Complainant and/or the Accused Student is responsible for representing themselves and presenting
any relevant information at the hearing; therefore, advisors may not speak or participate directly in any
Student Conduct Board hearing. A Student should select as an advisor a person whose schedule allows
attendance at the scheduled date and time for the Student Conduct Board hearing.
◦ The Complainant, the Accused Student, and the Student Conduct Board may arrange for witnesses to
present relevant information to the Student Conduct Board. At the discretion of the Student Conduct Officer,
the Officer will try to arrange the attendance of witnesses who are members of the WGU Community, if the
Complainant and/or Accused Student have identified such witnesses at least five (5) business days prior to
the hearing. Witnesses will provide information to, and answer questions from, the Student Conduct Board.
The Accused Student and/or Complainant may suggest questions for the Board to ask each other or
witnesses. The Board will conduct the questioning with such questions directed to the chairperson, rather
than to the witness directly to preserve the educational tone of the hearing and to avoid creation of an
adversarial environment. The Board chairperson, at their discretion, shall resolve questions of whether the
Board will receive potential information.
◦ At the discretion of the chairperson, the Student Conduct Board may accept any relevant records, exhibits,
and written statements as evidence.
◦ All procedural questions are subject to the final decision of the chairperson of the Student Conduct Board.
◦ After hearing and receiving all relevant evidence, the Student Conduct Board shall determine by consensus
whether the Accused Student has committed the violations as alleged in the complaint.
◦ The Student Conduct Board shall use the preponderance of the evidence standard to make its
determination(s) (i.e., it is more likely than not that the Accused Student committed the violations as
alleged).
◦ Student Code of Conduct proceedings are not subject to formal rules of process, procedure, and/or
technical rules of evidence, such as are applicable in criminal or civil court.
5. There shall be a single record, such as an audio recording (or contemporaneous account) of all Student Conduct
Board hearings; however, there shall be no recording of the Board’s deliberations. The record shall be the
property of WGU and will become part of the Accused Student’s Disciplinary Record. WGU maintains the record in
accordance with all WGU records retention policies. WGU will keep the record of a suspended or expelled Student
indefinitely.
6. If an Accused Student receives appropriate notice and does not attend the Student Conduct Board hearing, the
presentation of information in support of the complaint and Board consideration will proceed even if the Accused
Student is not present.
7. The Student Conduct Board may accommodate concerns for the personal safety, well-being, and/or fears of
confrontation of the Complainant or witnesses during the hearing by permitting participation by separate meeting,
separate telephone line, written statement, or other means, where determined to be appropriate by the Student
Conduct Officer.
Following the Student Conduct Board hearing, the Student Conduct Officer shall advise the Accused Student and the
Complainant in writing of the Board’s determination and of the sanction(s) imposed, if any.
Sanctions: WGU will impose sanctions for violations that the Student Conduct Board determines the Student has
committed. When determining which sanctions to impose, the Student Conduct Board will consider the Student’s history
of misconduct and the severity of the violations. Certain behaviors, such as proxy cheating, are considered egregious
violations of the Code and may warrant expulsion without prior warnings or remediation opportunities. The Student
Conduct Board may direct the Student Conduct Officer to impose any of the following sanctions and may impose more
than one sanction for each violation:
1. Level 1 Warning: A written (email) notice that a Student’s conduct is violating or has violated the Code of Conduct
and the misconduct must cease immediately and not occur again in the future.
2. Level 2 Warning: A written notice indicating that a Student’s conduct is violating or has violated the standards of
conduct including an improvement plan that will demonstrate conduct conforming to the Student Code of Conduct
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 46
within a specified period of time. A Level 2 Warning includes the probability of more severe sanctions for any
subsequent violation of the Code of Conduct.
3. Loss of Privileges: A written notice of the denial of specified privileges for a designated period of time.
4. Restitution: An order requiring the Accused Student to compensate relevant parties for loss, damage, or injury.
This may take the form of appropriate service and/or monetary or material replacement.
5. Discretionary Sanctions: Work assignments, essays, service to WGU or other related discretionary assignments.
6. Disciplinary Suspension: Separation of the Student from WGU for a definite length of time, after which the Student
is eligible to return. WGU may specify conditions for readmission.
7. Removal from Academic Program: Removal of the Student from their chosen academic program for behaviors not
conforming to the standards of professional conduct associated with programs leading to professional licensure.
The Student Conduct Board may, at its discretion, suggest one or more alternative academic programs. If the
Student does not accept an alternative program or WGU deems it inappropriate under the circumstances, the
Accused Student will be subject to administrative withdrawal.
8. Disciplinary Expulsion: Permanent separation of the Student from WGU without the possibility of readmission.
9. Revocation of transcript grades and/or assessment results: WGU may amend grades or assessment results that
are part of the Student’s Academic Record.
10. Revocation of Admission and/or Degree: WGU may revoke admission to, or a degree awarded from WGU for
fraud, misrepresentation, or other violation of WGU standards in obtaining the degree, or for other serious
violations a Student committed prior to graduation.
11. Withholding Degree: WGU may withhold awarding a degree otherwise earned until the completion of the process
set forth in this Student Code of Conduct, including the completion of all sanctions imposed, if any.
Documentation of disciplinary expulsion, removal from an academic program, or revocation or withholding of a degree
are part of the Student’s permanent Academic Record. Documentation of other disciplinary sanctions shall not be part of
the Student’s permanent Education Record but shall become part of the Student’s Disciplinary Record. In situations
involving both an Accused Student and a Student claiming to be the victim of the Accused Student’s conduct, WGU
considers the records of the process and outcomes, if any, to be the education records of both the Accused Student(s)
and the Student(s) claiming to be the victim.
Administrative Holds: If a Student fails to respond to a complaint or complete sanctions as required, the Student Conduct
Office may place an administrative hold on the Student’s Academic Record to ensure cooperation with the disciplinary
process. In most cases, an administrative hold will not prevent a Student from completing coursework in the current term
but will prevent a Student from registering in additional courses, receiving transcripts, or obtaining a degree. Depending
on the severity of the charges, the Conduct Officer may also institute an administrative hold pending the outcome of
proceedings.
Interim Suspension: In certain circumstances, the Student Conduct Manager, or a designee, may impose a WGU
suspension prior to the Student Conduct Board hearing.
1. The Manager may impose interim suspension for the following reasons: (i) to ensure the safety and wellbeing of
members of the WGU Community or preservation of WGU property; (ii) to ensure the Accused Student’s physical
or emotional safety and wellbeing; or (iii) if the Accused Student poses an ongoing threat of disruption of, or
interference with, the normal operations of WGU.
2. As the Student Conduct Manager or the Student Conduct Officer may determine to be appropriate for the
purposes of investigation, an Accused Student may lose access to some or all WGU systems or privileges for
which the Accused Student might otherwise be eligible during the interim suspension.
3. If the Manager determines an interim suspension is appropriate, the interim suspension does not replace the
regular process, which shall proceed as outlined in this Student Code of Conduct, up to and through the Student
Conduct Board hearing.
Appeals: Students have limited right to appeal a decision reached by the Student Conduct Board. The Accused Student
or Complainant may appeal a decision reached by the Student Conduct Board or a sanction imposed by the Student
Conduct Officer to the Appellate Board, in writing, within five (5) business days of notification of the decision. The
appealing party shall deliver the appeal to the Student Conduct Officer or their designee.
1. Except as required to explain the basis of information a party discovered after the Conduct Board hearing, an
appeal is limited to a review of the record of the Student Conduct Board hearing and supporting documents for
one or more of the following purposes:
◦ To determine whether the Student Conduct Board hearing was conducted fairly. Consideration of fairness
shall include the following:
▪ The charges and the information presented to the Student Conduct Board.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 47
▪ The degree of conformance with prescribed procedures which allow the complaining party a
reasonable opportunity to prepare and present information that there was a violation of the Student
Code of Conduct while also allowing the Accused Student a reasonable opportunity to prepare and
present a response to those allegations. Note: Deviation from designated procedures is not a basis
for sustaining an appeal unless significant prejudice resulted from the deviation.
◦ To determine whether the decision reached regarding the Accused Student was based on substantial
information, that is, whether there were facts in the case that, if believed by the fact finder, were sufficient to
establish that a violation of the Student Code of Conduct occurred.
◦ To determine whether the sanction(s) imposed were appropriate for the violation(s) of the Student Code of
Conduct which the Student Conduct Board found the Accused Student to have committed.
◦ To consider new information sufficient to alter a decision or other relevant facts not brought out in the
original hearing because such information and/or facts were not known and were not discoverable by the
appealing party at the time of the original Student Conduct Board hearing.
2. If the Appellate Board grants an appeal, the matter shall return to the original Student Conduct Board and Student
Conduct Officer for reopening of Student Conduct Board hearing to allow reconsideration of the original
determination and/or sanction(s). If the Appellate Board denies an appeal, the decisions and any sanctions of the
Student Conduct Board hearing shall be final and binding on all parties.
Interpretation and Revision: For questions of interpretation or application of the Student Code of Conduct, the Student
Conduct Manager or their designee shall make a final determination.
• Under the direction and discretion of the Student Conduct Manager, WGU shall review the Student Code of
Conduct every two (2) years, or as needed. In the interim, WGU may amend the Code of Conduct at any time
upon appropriate notice to Students. Individuals may suggest revisions to the Student Conduct Officer which an
ad hoc panel, assigned by the Student Conduct Manager, will review, and consider.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 48
Standalone Courses and Certificates
In addition to degree programs, WGU offers single courses, course bundles, and certificates. For students that want to
try out online learning or start their educational journey with low cost and low risk, single courses are the perfect
launching pad for bachelor’s degree pursuit. Course bundles are thoughtfully curated groups of courses that allow
students to experience college coursework while exploring an area of interest. Certificate programs are designed to focus
on real-world skills that are in high demand. A professional certificate can help students enhance their resume by adding
powerful credentials that show they have the knowledge and skills employers are looking for.
At this time, federal financial aid is not available for standalone courses or certificate offerings.
Single Courses
• American Politics and the U.S. Constitution (C963A)
• Applied Algebra (C957A)
• Applied Probability and Statistics (C955A)
• English Composition I (ENG1)
• Ethics in Technology (D333A)
• Foundations of Coding (D615A)
• Foundations of Computer Science (D792A)
• Fundamentals of Information Security (D430A)
• Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations (D388A)
• Fundamentals for Success in Business (D072A)
• Global Arts and Humanities (D198A)
• Introduction to Biology (C190A)
• Introduction to Psychology (C180A)
• Introduction to Python Programming (D335A)
• Introduction to Sociology (C273A)
• IT and Tech Fundamentals (CTIAT)
• Learners and Learning Science (D664A)
• Learner Development and the Science of Learning (D665A)
• PACA: Introduction to Communications and Reflective Development (PACA101)
• Precalculus (MAT201)
• Problem-Solving with Artificial Intelligence (D685A)
• Project Management (C722A)
• Quantitative Literacy (D771A)
• Scripting and Programming Foundations (D278A)
• U.S. History (HIS101)
• Utah History (UTH)
Single courses cost $750 - $1,000 for two to three months of access, depending on the course. Courses offer 2 - 4
competency units and are stackable towards a relevant WGU bachelor’s degree program. Note: Standalone courses
have distinct course numbers differing from equivalent WGU degree program courses. For more information on single
courses, visit https://www.wgu.edu/academy/courses.html. Course descriptions are listed below in this section.
Course Bundles
Students have the option to bundle some courses together during the enrollment process. Course bundles cost $1,500 -
$1,750 for three or four months of access, depending on the bundle, and consist of two courses (6 or 7 competency
units).
Certificates
• Accounting Fundamentals Certificate – $2,000
• Business Leadership Certificate – $1,125
• Digital Marketing and E-Commerce Certificate – $2,250
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 49
• Supply Chain Fundamentals Certificate – $2,500
• Nursing Leadership Certificate – $2,000
• Management Skills for Supervisors Certificate – $1,200
• AI Skills Fundamentals Certificate - $699
• Data Analytics Skills Certificate – $2,000
• Data Engineering Professional Certificate - $3,500
• Front-End Web Developer Certificate – $499
• Java Developer Certificate – $499
• ServiceNow Application Developer Certificate – $1,500
• Full Stack Engineering Certificates - $10,850
Certificates are 3 to 18 months in length and consist of between 5 and 44 competency units, depending on the certificate.
For more information on certificates, visit https://www.wgu.edu/academy/certificates.html. Standard paths for certificates
are listed at the end of the catalog on page 330.
The Full Stack Engineering Certificates include all courses included in the Front End Web Development, Back End Web
Development, and Web Application Deployment and Support certificates.
For success in the Full Stack Engineering Certificates it is strongly recommended students have experience in the
following areas:
• Experience with either Python or Java or another high-order OO (object-oriented) programming language along
with Git
• Experience with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
• Experience with a major DBMS (database management system) - MySQL (preferred), SQL Server, Oracle,
MariaDB, etc.
Course Descriptions
Academic Readiness for Nursing (ARN) - This course is designed to support students as they prepare for exams such as
the Test of Essential Academic Skills (TEAS) and the Health Education Systems, Inc. (HESI) assessment. Through
targeted review and practice, students strengthen their foundational knowledge in reading comprehension, language
usage, mathematics, and science—core areas essential for success in nursing programs and beyond.
Agile, Risk, and Leadership in Project Management (PM3) - In project management, change is constant. How a project
manager adapts to changes and resolves challenges is critical to driving projects to completion. In this course, students
focus on Agile practices that help project teams stay focused, remain flexible, and continuously improve. They learn how
to adapt under pressure, solve problems effectively, choose smart solutions, and lead through uncertainty. Students
examine risk management practices and how to plan for the unexpected while keeping the project on track. They also
develop essential leadership skills, including fostering team collaboration and practicing clear communication to ensure
stakeholders remain aligned and informed.
AI Skills Fundamentals Capstone (AIAPP) - In this course, students complete a project that uses AI to take innovative
and creative ideas to the next level. They apply the skills and knowledge gained from Problem-Solving with Artificial
Intelligence and Responsible Use of AI to this project. As the culmination of their learning, the capstone allows them to
design and propose AI solutions to enhance productivity and solve specific challenges in their workplace or within a
hypothetical organization. The project not only showcases their technical skills but also gives them the chance to critically
assess the ethical implications of AI recommendations.
American Politics and the U.S. Constitution (C963A) - American Politics and the U.S. Constitution examines the evolution
of representative government in the United States and the changing interpretations of the civil rights and civil liberties
protected by the Constitution. This course will give candidates an understanding of the powers of the branches of the
federal government, the continual tensions inherent in a federal system, the shifting relationship between state and
federal governments, and the interactions between elected officials and the ever-changing electorate. This course will
focus on such topics as the role of a free press in a democracy, the impact of changing demographics on American
politics, and the debates over and expansion of civil rights. Upon completion of the course, candidates should be able to
explain the basic functions of the federal government, describe the forces that shape American policy and politics, and be
better prepared to participate in America’s civic institutions.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 50
Applied Algebra (C957A) - Applied Algebra is designed to help you develop competence in working with functions, the
algebra of functions, and using some applied properties of functions. You will start learning about how we can apply
different kinds of functions to relevant, real-life examples. From there, the algebra of several families of functions will be
explored, including linear, polynomial, exponential, and logistic functions. You will also learn about relevant, applicable
mathematical properties of each family of functions, including rate of change, concavity, maximizing/minimizing, and
asymptotes. These properties will be used to solve problems related to your major and make sense of everyday living
problems.
Applied Probability and Statistics (C955A) - Students who want to make reasoned, well-informed decisions might be
surprised to learn that using statistics and probability can be a key strategy. Scientists use statistical data to create new
medical treatments, and business leaders use probability to determine their next ventures. Probability and statistics also
affect choices in education, information technology, and entertainment. In this course, students will learn the basics of
algebra and graphing, descriptive statistics, regression and correlation, and probability. They will also explore how
researchers use statistical data. Along the way, students will gain knowledge and skills that help ensure they make well-
founded decisions in any career field.
Back-End Coding: Java and Job Readiness (CSBE) - The first thing we might notice when visiting a website or
application is its aesthetic and layout. But as we begin to navigate, we quickly discover that a site’s performance is as
important as how it looks. The purpose of back-end web development is to ensure that a website or application operates
efficiently beyond the appealing graphics and design. This is crucial for creating web applications that users can rely on
and trust. In this offering, students will explore Java programming for beginners. They will also work toward mastering
algorithms and data structures in Java.
Basic Skills for Educators (BSE) - Students who aspire to be teachers must attain basic skills in reading, writing, and
mathematics. In this course, students engage with these subjects and gain knowledge that helps prepare them to
become effective educators. They explore mathematical concepts, analytical reading, and essay writing. Along the way,
they encounter the same types of questions, problems, and passages that appear on standard exams required for
teacher licensure in many states.
Build Your Strategy (ESHIP2) - This interactive, project-based course gives aspiring entrepreneurs the tools and
strategies to confidently launch and grow a business. Students define their brand identity by creating a visual brand
board, writing a compelling brand story, and selecting key marketing channels to reach their target audience. They
sharpen their financial planning skills and reflect on the challenges of financial decision-making. In addition, students
explore how to choose the best legal structure for their business by evaluating factors like liability, ownership, taxes, and
scalability.
Building a B2B Sales Foundation (B2BS1) - Sales starts with mindfulness and attitude. In this course, students focus on
what they are feeling, controlling how they express themselves, and learning to channel their energy to become
successful sales professionals. The course discusses communication theory and active and empathetic
listening—essential skills for salespeople. It introduces the importance of self-confidence, which lays the foundation for
sales training.
Building and Inspiring Teams (FL1) - In this course, students develop practical skills in managing teams by focusing on
coaching, team building, and fostering an inclusive environment. Through formative role-play assessments and
summative team management exercises, students will practice giving feedback, conducting performance reviews, and
creating an inclusive culture that encourages growth and productivity.
B2B Relationship Management and Negotiation (B2BS3) - This course focuses specifically on business-to-business
sales. It emphasizes the importance of creating and maintaining long-term relationships. Students explore the use of
active and empathetic listening with their customers, and they discover the importance of solving problems, adding value,
and negotiating. In addition, students learn about research and analysis, leveraging AI when possible, to gather
information, ways to improve messaging, and how to identify resources. They are also introduced to the basics of project
management and customer relationship management systems.
B2B Sales Strategies (B2BS2) - As an introduction to sales training, this course focuses on the basics of sales, tailoring
content for technology, healthcare, and industrial manufacturing. Students explore sales approaches with specific
discussions of the Challenger, SPIN, and Sandler methodologies. They learn about networking and teamwork, and they
have the opportunity to apply the skills they have gained.
Data Analysis with SQL (DCADA) - In this course, students will learn to analyze and interpret data. They will develop a
fundamental understanding of structured query language (SQL) and use PostgreSQL to extract, join, aggregate, validate,
and clean data.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 51
Data Visualization (DCDV) - In this course, students explore how data is collected and sorted. They learn how to present
data and create reports using Power BI (business intelligence) and Tableau.
Decision Making for Team Leaders (FL3) - In this course, students develop the ability to make quick and effective
decisions in high-pressure situations. Through practical simulations and case-based problem-solving assessments,
students will enhance their decision-making and adaptability while managing day-to-day operations in a fast-paced
environment.
Define Your Business (ESHIP1) - With this hands-on, outcome-driven course designed for aspiring entrepreneurs and
innovators, students develop a comprehensive strategic business plan, building a strong foundation by defining their
business’s mission, as well as short- and long-term goals. Through practical market research, students identify their
target audience, perform in-depth competitor analysis, and produce an actionable market research brief that directly
informs business strategy. Leveraging the power of AI, students also maintain an AI-enhanced business planning journal,
tracking their use of AI tools for productivity and market analysis.
Digital Marketing Capstone (DMC) - Designed to bridge education and industry, this course connects students with actual
companies through Riipen, allowing them to work on live marketing projects that address current business challenges.
Students integrate core digital marketing competencies to develop targeted campaigns and deliver marketing assets.
They select projects aligned with their interests and career goals, then build a set of authentic marketing deliverables
while reflecting on the creative and strategic decisions made along the way.
Effective Communication for Team Leaders (FL2) - This course focuses on effective communication and emotional
intelligence, equipping students with the skills to manage conflicts and communicate clearly in challenging situations.
Students will pass through simulations and role-playing exercises that test their ability to resolve conflicts, listen actively,
and respond to emotional cues during team interactions.
English Composition I (ENG1) - This course is intended for learners who struggle with written communication or like to
write but want to improve. The course illustrates that anyone can become a good writer. But, just like anything that
requires practice, writing is a process. Learners will explore four distinct writing approaches: expressive, narrative,
interpretive, and argumentative. Using these approaches, they will develop writing skills that will benefit them in all
aspects of their lives.
Ethics in Technology (D333A) - Ethics in Technology examines the ethical considerations of technology use in the 21st
century and introduces students to a decision-making process informed by ethical frameworks. Students will study
specific cases related to important topics such as surveillance, social media, hacking, data manipulation, plagiarism and
piracy, artificial intelligence, responsible innovation, and the digital divide.
Find Your Inner Founder (ESHIP3) - This immersive course helps students discover their unique leadership style and
develop the emotional and strategic tools required to thrive as a founder. Designed for real-world entrepreneurial
readiness, the course focuses on communication, time management, emotional resilience, and team leadership—critical
skills for launching and leading a business. Students engage in leadership practice by recording and reflecting on real-
time feedback scenarios. They document meaningful community outreach and explore how authentic connection shapes
founder identity. By the end of the course, students have everything they need to launch their business and lead with a
sharpened entrepreneurial mindset.
Foundations of Coding (D615A) - Successful programmers know how to solve a puzzle. They have the curiosity and
foundational knowledge to write code for countless applications. For students ready to gain that expertise, this course will
introduce them to algorithmic thinking and how to apply it to everyday situations. They will explore key programming
concepts, including flow control, data types, and common data structures. They will also study the organization and
documentation of simple programs. As students progress in this course, they will learn about the major programming
language types and how to develop basic programs in Python. Along the way, they will discover key troubleshooting
strategies and develop a growth mindset so they can overcome any challenges they encounter.
Foundations of Computer Science (D792A) - People use computers every day. But how much do they know about their
design, development, and application? This course is for students who want to learn about computational systems and
how humans interact with them. By studying this material, they focus on the essential principles and practices of
computer science. They explore concepts such as designing basic computer programs, evaluating the efficiency of
algorithms, understanding operating systems, and using data profiling. This course thoroughly introduces the
fundamental aspects of computer science necessary for further study and practice in the discipline.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 52
Front-End Engineering: JavaScript and React (CSFE) - There is an art and science to front-end web development. A
skilled front-end web developer aims to craft a user interface that is accessible and effortless. The goal is to captivate
and delight the user, ensuring that they remain loyal and return to the website time and again. In this offering, students
will explore the fundamentals of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and so much more.
Fundamentals of Information Security (D430A) - This course lays the foundation for understanding terminology,
principles, processes, and best practices of information security at local and global levels. It further provides an overview
of basic security vulnerabilities and countermeasures for protecting information assets through planning and
administrative controls within an organization.
Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations (D388A) - Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data
Presentations offers learners an overview of the use of spreadsheet functions and methods for presenting data within
spreadsheets. Learners will have the opportunity to explore features and uses of MS Excel and apply the tools to
situations they may encounter while studying in their program. They will also be introduced to real world uses and tools to
collect, organize and present data.
Fundamentals for Success in Business (D072A) - This introductory course provides students with an overview of the field
of business and a basic understanding of how management, organizational structure, communication, and leadership
styles affect the business environment. It also introduces them to some of the power skills that help make successful
business professionals, including time management, problem solving, emotional intelligence and innovation; while also
teaching them the importance of ethics. This course gives students an opportunity to begin to explore their own strengths
and passions in relation to the field while also acclimating them to the online competency-based environment.
Global Arts and Humanities (D198A) - What makes us human? That is the question students will explore in this course
as they study the many facets of the arts and humanities, including literature, painting and sculpture, history, languages,
and philosophy. Students will also follow the creation and impact of music around the world. These aspects of our culture
are mirrors, reflecting who we are individually and collectively. By understanding the arts and humanities, students will
learn how people use these constructs to express themselves and communicate. In turn, they will discover the struggles
and triumphs we have all experienced. In addition, students will uncover what issues matter to us and how we are all
connected.
Introduction to Biology (C190A) - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching
theories of life from biological research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of
living organisms and their interaction with the environment. Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce
energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment to maintain internal stability; and
how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
Introduction to Psychology (C180A) - In this course, students will develop an understanding of psychology and how it
helps them better understand others and themselves. Students will learn general theories about psychological
development, the structure of the brain, and how psychologists study behavior. They will gain an understanding of both
normal and disordered psychological behaviors, as well as general applications of the science of psychology in society
(such as personality typing and counseling).
Introduction to Python Programming (D335A) - Python is a computer programming language created for various
purposes. It is often used to develop software and build websites. It is also employed to automate tasks and analyze
data. In fact, Python is all around us. Its technology enables movie streaming services to make recommendations. It
allows Google to find the information people search for. It can even help direct self-driving cars. By taking this course,
students gain skills in creating Python scripts with basic programming concepts. They learn to create control flow with
functions and loops. In addition, they discover how to implement code with packages, modules, and libraries.
Introduction to Sociology (C273A) - This course teaches students to think like sociologists, or, in other words, to see and
understand the hidden rules, or norms, by which people live, and how they free or restrain behavior. Students will learn
about socializing institutions, such as schools and families, as well as workplace organizations and governments.
Participants will also learn how people deviate from the rules by challenging norms and how such behavior may result in
social change, either on a large scale or within small groups.
IT and Tech Fundamentals (CTIAT) - In this course, students explore a diverse range of IT concepts and career paths,
from building computers and databases to computer programming. In addition, they learn about browsing the Internet
securely, creating networks, using common software applications, understanding external computer hardware, and
updating operating systems. By completing this course, students establish a solid tech-fluent foundation. This course
prepares them to take the CompTIA Tech+ certification exam, an industry standard that will enhance their career options
in numerous fields.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 53
Learners and Learning Science (D664A) - How do students learn? This is a key question aspiring educators will explore
in this undergraduate course. They will consider concepts related to learning environments and educational levels, from
early childhood through adolescence. As they study the material, they will encounter evidence-based practices and the
practical application of learning science principles. These can help equip their future students with strategies to enhance
learning outcomes and increase engagement. After completing this course, they will be empowered educators—ready to
create effective, inclusive, and engaging learning experiences for their students.
Learner Development and the Science of Learning (D665A) - What are the best strategies for helping students learn? An
effective approach involves so much more than receiving information and memorizing facts. For real learning to occur, it
is critical to understand how students comprehend and retain information. In fact, there is a science to it! In this graduate-
level course, participants will explore how students’ brains work. They will discover how growth and development
influence learning, as well as the role that learning theories play in academic success. Along the way, they will gain
expertise in instructional techniques and how to apply those in the classroom.
Mastering HubSpot - To be successful, digital marketers must effectively keep track of sales, service, web content,
operations, and other business essentials. HubSpot is a powerful software tool that can assist by providing all-in-one
solutions. In this course, students will learn about HubSpot and how to best utilize it. They will explore how this cloud-
based platform can sync and connect consumers, teams, and devices. They will discover the ways HubSpot can improve
business functions by tracking potential clients, managing emails and social media posts, hosting web pages, and
tracking customer service. Along the way, they will learn how the software analyzes campaign results and user behavior.
Mastering QuickBooks - Bookkeeping is the detailed art of recording all the financial transactions for a company. When
done well, this process helps a business track its progress and ultimately succeed. One essential tool is Intuit
QuickBooks. This software can help manage bookkeeping tasks, such as tracking income and expenses, managing
payroll, simplifying taxes, and accepting online payments. This course will show students how to properly use
QuickBooks Online. They will learn to create a QuickBooks Online account, customize settings, manage customers and
products, enter transactions, generate reports, and close books. They will discover tips, shortcuts, and best practices to
save time and become proficient in the use of this software.
Native Histories of the Pacific Northwest (D506A) - The history of the Pacific Northwest is rich in culture and tradition.
The lives of the early peoples helped shape this region and continue to influence it. In this undergraduate course,
students will explore the geographic, social, and economic development of the Pacific Northwest region of the United
States, with a particular emphasis on the Native population who were the region's first inhabitants. They will discover how
contact with European colonists disrupted tribal societies and how Native peoples resisted assimilation efforts. They will
also consider the continuing activism of Native communities in areas of civil and environmental rights.
Native Histories of the Pacific Northwest (D507A) - The first inhabitants of the Pacific Northwest have much to teach us.
Studying Native peoples’ history enhances our understanding of U.S. history. It helps us see the vital role Native peoples
played in our past and how they continue to impact our present. In this graduate-level course, students will explore the
long, early histories of the region’s diverse tribes. They will discover how the environment shaped their practices and
beliefs. In addition, they will learn about the challenges the Native peoples faced and how they have endured over the
centuries. This knowledge will help students become well-informed and better-prepared educators.
Nursing Leadership Capstone (NLC) - This course covers the foundational management skills nurses need to become an
effective healthcare leader. Those skills include time management, problem-solving, delegating, conflict resolution,
coaching, and accountability.
Pacific Northwest K-12 Integrated Methods (D461A) - A critical aspect of an enriched educational environment is
addressing the backgrounds and needs of all students. To that end, this undergraduate course was created to help future
educators integrate Native perspectives into their lessons, a requirement in Washington State public education. The
course material is derived from the Since Time Immemorial tribal sovereignty curriculum. Participants will study various
ways to incorporate its concepts into content areas, such as art and mathematics. They will also delve into cultural
intelligence and conscious collaboration as they learn to communicate and work with local Native tribes.
Pacific Northwest K-12 Integrated Methods and Curriculum (D462A) - In Washington State, teachers are required to
incorporate tribal history, culture, and tribal governments in public education. Beyond this requirement, including Native
perspectives in lessons can result in dynamic and engaging classrooms. This graduate-level course provides participants
with the knowledge and skills necessary to create learning activities that are aligned with state standards and integrate
curricula within various content areas. They will learn to design content-specific instruction based on the Since Time
Immemorial curriculum. Integrating curriculum in various content areas is a critical skill, and gaining this expertise will
lead to more enriched learning environments.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 54
PACA: Introduction to Communications and Reflective Development (PACA101) - In this course, learners will explore
interacting with others and managing conflict. This knowledge will help them build positive relationships at home, work,
and school. Throughout the course, learners will be encouraged to improve their communication and relationship
management skills. They will learn strategies for working on self-awareness, empathy, emotion management, and
thriving mindset. Having these skills will increase their chances of success in academics and in their careers.
Precalculus (MAT201) - Numeracy is the ability to understand and use numbers. In this course, learners will improve
their numeracy and their ability to perform four basic operations: addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. With
these operations, learners will use not only whole numbers, but also integers, fractions, decimals, variables, and
algebraic expressions. They will learn to use data, functions, and graphs to analyze information. Once learners are
comfortable with the concepts, they will apply them to solve real-world problems they might face at work or at home.
Problem-Solving with Artificial Intelligence (D685A) - Technology is advancing faster than ever before, and one of the
most fascinating developments is artificial intelligence (AI). Understanding its purpose, functionality, and how to utilize it
is key to unlocking its true potential. In this course, students will explore the anatomy of a well-constructed prompt. They
will learn how to sharpen their ability to craft messages tailored to specific contexts and audiences. They will master the
nuance of language and analyze the images, texts, and tone of prompts with the goal of adjusting them to achieve
optimal results. No matter what their career field, this course will empower students to understand the ever-evolving
digital landscape and stay ahead of the AI curve.
Project Execution and Performance Management (PM2) - In this course, students focus on project execution plans and
performance evaluation. They learn how to structure a project schedule with task sequences, key milestones,
dependencies, and required resources. Students explore how to make projects financially sustainable by setting realistic
budgets, tracking spending, and preparing for unexpected costs. Then, they assess project quality by defining metrics,
using data to support decisions, selecting and managing vendors, monitoring results, and continuously improving
processes to meet quality standards.
Project Management (C722A) - Project Management prepares you to manage projects from start to finish within any
organization structure. The course represents a view into different project-management methods and delves into topics
such as project profiling and phases, constraints, building the project team, scheduling, and risk. You will be able to
grasp the full scope of projects you may work with on in the future, and apply proper management approaches to
complete a project. The course features practice in each of the project phases as you learn how to strategically apply
project-management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their goals.
Project Management Capstone (PM4) - In this course, students apply project management skills and knowledge to an
end-to-end project scenario. They select a real or hypothetical project and demonstrate their ability to manage it from
initiation to closure. Students showcase their skills in project planning, execution, and reflection. They articulate project
goals, develop planning documents, apply leadership and communication strategies, and complete a retrospective to
capture lessons learned. This approach challenges students to synthesize their understanding of project management
principles and practices, with an emphasis on real-world relevance, workplace readiness, and strategic thinking.
Project Planning and Strategy (PM1) - All successful projects start with a well-organized plan. In this course, students
focus on the fundamentals of effective project planning. Beginning with project charters, students learn how to combine
all parts of a project—goals, team input, timeline, scope, and communication—into one unified plan. Students discover
how to connect project goals with broader organizational objectives. They learn how to create a work breakdown
structure to outline how tasks will be completed and tracked. Finally, students explore the importance of a project
schedule and stakeholder engagement strategy, one that keeps key players informed about and engaged in key
milestones and project timelines.
Quantitative Literacy (D771A) - Students in this course learn to use quantitative literacy to view real-world problems
through the lens of quantitative reasoning. They discover how to apply quantitative concepts to financial questions and
other matters. They also employ the principles of geometry and algebra to assess real-life scenarios. By engaging with
mathematical concepts for modeling and understanding everyday problems, students come to perceive math as a useful
and relevant tool for a variety of situations.
Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence (AIRU) - In today’s world, we encounter artificial intelligence (AI)
everywhere—including online, in the media, and in the workplace. From ChatGPT to self-driving cars, from smart home
assistants to facial recognition on our smartphones, AI is increasingly being integrated into our daily lives. This course
addresses the ethical issues of AI and guides students in understanding how this evolving technology can be used
efficiently but wisely.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 55
ServiceNow Application Developer - As technology rapidly evolves, the demand for straightforward, intuitive software
programs and applications grows alongside it. However, creating these programs and apps the traditional way calls for a
deep understanding of coding languages and advanced IT skills, which may not be practical in such a fast-paced and
ever-changing environment. That’s why developing applications through a more accessible Low-Code Application
Platform like ServiceNow is vital. This platform provides ways to create sophisticated and user-friendly applications
without requiring an advanced coding or IT background. In this course, students will implement user-centered solutions
from multiple perspectives. They will use the Flow Designer platform to automate real-world processes and develop a
custom application with an emphasis on user experience.
Scripting and Programming Foundations (D278A) - Scripting and Programming Foundations introduces programming
basics such as variables, data types, flow control, and design concepts. The course is language-agnostic in nature,
ending in a survey of languages, and introduces the distinction between interpreted and compiled languages. Learners
will gain skills in identifying scripts for computer program requirements and in using fundamental programming elements
as part of common computer programming tasks. Learners will also gain an understanding of the logic and outcome of
simple algorithms.
U.S. History (HIS101) - Studying history can be like traveling across time and space. This is true even when learners
study the history of their own country. In this course, learners will delve into the history of the United States from its
earliest beginnings to the late 20th century. They will realize that to appreciate history, they must be able to relate to the
people who lived in earlier times. They need to examine the decisions that historical figures made, what their daily lives
were like, and what relationships they had. They will also come to understand how history repeats itself.
Utah History (UTH) - In this graduate-level course, students explore Utah’s unique geographic regions, learning how they
influenced human history and the environment. They discover how Utah’s earliest human inhabitants relied on innovative
survival strategies and developed profound connections to the land. In addition, they study the various phases of
exploration, colonization, and development. They learn how these eras affected Indigenous populations and how Utah’s
social, economic, and political landscape transformed over the centuries. This knowledge prepares education students
for teaching Utah history and creating effective lesson plans.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 56
Academic Programs
School of Business Programs
• B.S. Accounting
• B.S. Human Resource Management
• B.S. Information Technology Management
• B.S. Business Management
• B.S. Marketing
• B.S. Communications
• B.S. Finance
• B.S. Healthcare Administration
• B.S. Supply Chain and Operations Management
• B.S. User Experience Design
• Master of Business Administration
• MBA Information Technology Management
• MBA Healthcare Administration
• M.S. Management and Leadership
• M.S. Marketing (Digital Marketing Specialization)
• M.S. Marketing (Marketing Analytics Specialization)
• M.S. Accounting - Auditing
• M.S. Accounting - Financial Reporting
• M.S. Accounting - Management Accounting
• M.S. Accounting - Taxation
• M.S. Human Resource Management
Leavitt School of Health Programs
• B.S. Nursing Prelicensure (Pre-Nursing)
• B.S. Nursing Prelicensure (Nursing)
• B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN)
• B.S. Health Information Management
• B.S. Health and Human Services
• B.S. Health Science
• B.S. Psychology
• B.S. Public Health
• M.S. Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner
• M.S. Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
• M.S. Nursing - Education
• M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management
• M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics
• M.S. Nursing - Education (RN to MSN)
• M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN)
• M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN)
• Master of Healthcare Administration
• Master of Public Health
• Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner
• Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 57
• Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Education
• Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management
School of Technology Programs
• B.S. Cloud Computing (AWS Track)
• B.S. Cloud Computing (Azure Track)
• B.S. Cloud Computing (Multi-Cloud Track)
• B.S. Computer Science
• B.S. Computer Science (BSCS to MSCS)
• B.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
• B.S. Data Analytics
• B.S. Information Technology
• B.S. Information Technology (BSIT to MSITM)
• B.S. Network Engineering and Security
• B.S. Network Engineering and Security (Cisco Track)
• B.S. Software Engineering (Java Track)
• B.S. Software Engineering (C# Track)
• B.S. Software Engineering (BSSWE to MSSWE)
• M.S. Computer Science - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
• M.S. Computer Science - Computing Systems
• M.S. Computer Science - Human-Computer Interaction
• M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
• M.S. Data Analytics (Data Science)
• M.S. Data Analytics (Data Engineering)
• M.S. Data Analytics (Decision Process Engineering)
• M.S. Information Technology Management
• M.S. Software Engineering - AI Engineering
• M.S. Software Engineering - DevOps Engineering
• M.S. Software Engineering - Domain Driven Design
School of Education Programs
Bachelor's Degrees with Licensure:
• B.A. Elementary Education
• B.A. Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure)
• B.A. Special Education (Mild to Moderate)
• B.S. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
• B.S. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
• B.S. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
• B.S. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
• B.S. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
Bachelor's Degrees (Non-Licensure):
• B.A. Educational Studies in Elementary Education
• B.A. Educational Studies in Special and Elementary Education
• B.A. Educational Studies in Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities Special Education
• B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Mathematics Education
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 58
• B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Biological Science Education
• B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Chemistry Science Education
• B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Earth Science Education
• B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Physics Science Education
Master's Degrees with Licensure:
• M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education
• M.A. Teaching, English Education (Secondary)
• M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
• M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Biology)
• M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
• M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
• M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Physics)
• M.A. Teaching, Social Studies Education (Secondary)
• M.A. Teaching, Special Education
Graduate Degrees and Degrees for Licensed Teachers:
• M.S. Curriculum and Instruction
• M.S. Educational Leadership
• M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (K-12 and Adult Learner)
• M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (Adult Learner)
• M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (K-12 Learner)
• M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
• M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6)
• M.A. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
• M.A. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
• M.A. Science Education (Middle Grades)
• M.A. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
• M.A. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
• M.A. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
• M.A. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
Endorsement Programs:
• Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
WGU publishes all available programs on the university website (http://www.wgu.edu/degrees_and_programs). WGU’s
public website provides access to a description of every degree program offered by the university, and each description
includes the requirements to be met for satisfactory completion.
Each degree listing includes an overview of the program and the program’s standard path. The standard path outlines
degree requirements (assessments and associated courses of study), the order in which requirements should be
completed, and the associated competency units (credits) by term. A WGU course is an organized learning resource,
comparable to a traditional course syllabus, and containing a week-by-week pacing component with a focus on helping
students navigate independent learning resources in an efficient way. Each assessment in the standard path has a
related course to guide students in acquiring the skills, knowledge, and abilities needed to pass the assessment.
Please refer to the standard paths below. Information provided for each course includes: the Assessment/Course Code;
the Course Name; and the competency unit(s) earned when the assessment is passed. Example: C455 – English
Composition I (3).
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 59
School of Business
School of Business Tenets:
• Impact: We are a global force for good; our shared purpose is to improve the lives of people and society through
a transformative business education that emphasizes sustainability and ethical action.
• Student Success: We optimize student attainment across a diverse array of learner populations by personalizing
learning experiences, building relationships, and customizing support.
• Inclusive Learning: We embrace diversity and equity by acknowledging the needs of underserved communities.
We create an inclusive and supportive environment for both students and staff.
• Accessibility: We drive affordability and expand access through cost-conscious decision-making. We scale
technology to address the challenges of students’ digital access.
• Relevant Curricula: We design innovative, high-quality, industry-relevant curricula through continuous
improvement and deliver rigorous, skills-based learning experiences that increase the ROI for our students.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 60
Bachelor of Science, Accounting
The Bachelor of Science in Accounting is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a wide variety of
careers in the field of accounting in public, private and non-profit entities. The Accounting program combines general
business competencies with a specialized set of in-depth technical accounting competencies. These prepare
graduates for positions such as staff accountant, general ledger accountant, tax associate, or auditor. The
competencies in the Accounting program help you develop the skills necessary for leadership positions in accountings
such as accounting manager, assistant controller, or controller.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 1
Accounting
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 1
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 2
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 2
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 3
ACCT 2313 D102 Financial Accounting 3 3
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 3
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 4
Presentations
ACCT 3630 C237 Taxation I 3 4
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 4
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 5
with Others
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 5
Structures and Legal Environment
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 5
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 5
HIST 1017 D267 US History: Stories of American Democracy 3 6
ACCT 3314 D101 Cost and Managerial Accounting 3 6
ACCT 3350 D216 Business Law for Accountants 3 6
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 6
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 7
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 7
ACCT 3611 D103 Intermediate Accounting I 3 7
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 61
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 8
Contact
ACCT 3621 D104 Intermediate Accounting II 3 8
ACCT 3360 D217 Accounting Information Systems 3 8
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 8
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 9
ACCT 3650 D105 Intermediate Accounting III 3 9
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 9
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 10
Logistics, and Operations
BUS 2111 D361 Business Simulation 4 10
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 10
ACCT 3340 D215 Auditing 3 10
BSACC 202503 Total CUs: 121
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 62
Bachelor of Science, Human Resource Management
The Bachelor of Science in Human Resource Management is a competency-based program that prepares graduates
for a variety of careers in the fields of human capital management and people and talent. Graduates with a major in
Human Resource Management will combine a set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth
competencies from the field of HRM. These competencies align with a variety of positions as human resource
managers, personnel directors, people and talent managers, and benefits and compensation specialists. The program
content has also been certified by the Society for Human Resource Management as aligning with their body of
knowledge and helps prepare students for the pursuit of a SHRM professional certification. The program is also
aligned with Human Resource Certification Institute (HRCI) curriculum standards and helps prepare students for the
pursuit of the Professional in Human Resources (PHR) exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
HRM 2110 D351 Functions of Human Resource Management 3 1
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 2
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 2
Structures and Legal Environment
HRM 3110 D352 Employment and Labor Law 3 2
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 3
Presentations
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 3
Contact
HRM 3520 D354 Talent Acquisition 3 3
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 4
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 4
HRM 3530 D355 Total Rewards 3 4
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 5
with Others
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 5
Logistics, and Operations
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 5
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 6
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 6
Accounting
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 6
HRM 3510 D353 Strategic Training and Development 3 6
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 7
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 63
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 7
HRM 3540 D356 HR Technology 3 7
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 8
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 8
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 8
HRM 3550 D357 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 3 8
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 9
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 9
Connections
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 9
HRM 3560 D358 Global Human Resource Management 3 10
HRM 3570 D359 Agile HR 3 10
HRM 3100 D360 HRM Capstone 3 10
BSHR 202503 Total CUs: 117
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 64
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology Management
The Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Management is a competency-based program that prepares
graduates for careers in a variety of businesses involving the management of information technology resources and
information technology professionals. Graduates with a major in Information Technology Management will combine a
set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth competencies from the field of ITM. These competencies
align with a variety of positions such as IT project manager, director of customer service, data center manager, or
equivalent positions.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management 3 1
Essentials
PHIL 3010 C168 Critical Thinking and Logic 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 2
Structures and Legal Environment
ENGL 1010 C455 English Composition I 3 2
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 2
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 3
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 3
Accounting
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 3
HIST 1010 C121 Survey of United States History 3 3
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 4
COMM 1011 C464 Introduction to Communication 3 4
ENGL 1020 C456 English Composition II 3 4
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 5
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 5
ITEC 2205 C179 Business of IT - Applications 4 5
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 6
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 6
Logistics, and Operations
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 6
ITEC 2102 C172 Network and Security - Foundations 3 6
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 6
HUMN 1010 C100 Introduction to Humanities 3 7
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 7
Contact
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 65
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 7
HRM 2100 C232 Introduction to Human Resource Management 3 8
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 8
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 8
ITEC 2104 C175 Data Management - Foundations 3 8
HRM 3200 C234 Workforce Planning: Recruitment and 3 9
Selection
BUS 2111 D361 Business Simulation 4 9
HRM 3600 C236 Compensation and Benefits 3 9
HRM 3100 C233 Employment Law 3 9
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 10
BUS 4891 PFIT Business - IT Management Portfolio 3 10
Requirement
BUS 4890 QFT1 Business - IT Management Capstone Project 4 10
BSITM 202503 Total CUs: 120
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 66
Bachelor of Science, Business Management
The Bachelor of Science in Business Management is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a
variety of careers in the field of business as an entry to intermediate level manager. Graduates with a major in
Business Management will combine a set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth competencies from
the field of management. These competencies align with the management of process, people and resources and are
an excellent precursor for entry into an MBA program.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 1
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 1
HRM 2110 D351 Functions of Human Resource Management 3 2
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 2
with Others
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 2
Structures and Legal Environment
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 3
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 3
ACCT 2350 D774 Introduction to Business Accounting 3 3
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 3
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
FINC 2010 D775 Introduction to Business Finance 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 4
HRM 3520 D354 Talent Acquisition 3 5
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 5
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 5
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 5
Contact
HRM 3510 D353 Strategic Training and Development 3 6
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 6
BUS 3130 D099 Sales Management 3 6
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 6
Connections
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 7
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 7
ITEC 2001 C182 Introduction to IT 4 7
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 7
Logistics, and Operations
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 67
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 8
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 8
BUS 2111 D361 Business Simulation 4 8
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 9
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 9
BUS 4840 QGT1 Business Management Capstone Written 4 9
Project
BSMGT 202503 Total CUs: 111
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 68
Bachelor of Science, Marketing
The Bachelor of Science in Marketing is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a career in the
fields of marketing and sales across a variety of business types. Graduates with a major in Marketing will combine a
set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth competencies from the field of marketing. These
competencies align with a variety of positions in marketing, brand management, sales and digital marketing.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 1
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 2
MKTG 2150 D174 Marketing Management 3 2
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 2
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 2
Structures and Legal Environment
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 3
with Others
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 3
Presentations
BUSI 3731 VZT1 Marketing Applications 3 3
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 3
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 4
Accounting
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
MKTG 3850 D175 Consumer Behavior 3 4
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 5
Logistics, and Operations
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 5
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 5
BUS 4400 QHT1 Business Management Tasks 3 5
COMM 1721 D246 Influential Communication through Visual 3 6
Design and Storytelling
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 6
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 6
BUS 3120 D098 Digital Marketing 3 6
MKTG 3860 D176 Content Marketing 3 7
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 7
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 7
MKTG 3870 D177 Brand Management 3 7
HRM 2110 D351 Functions of Human Resource Management 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 69
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 8
Connections
BUS 3130 D099 Sales Management 3 8
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 8
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 9
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 9
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 9
BUS 2111 D361 Business Simulation 4 9
BUS 3880 D178 Marketing Strategy and Analytics 3 10
BSMKT 202501 Total CUs: 112
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 70
Bachelor of Science, Communications
The Bachelor of Science in Communications is a competency-based program that develops communications and
business strategy skills that can be applied to a variety of sectors, such as corporations, small businesses,
government agencies, non-profits, technology firms, healthcare, and educational institutions. The program
competencies align with industry-demanded skills, preparing you to deliver multimedia communications with
persuasive and effective messaging to appropriate audiences. The program also develops collaborative skills that
involve leveraging diverse perspectives, incorporating feedback, and adeptly navigating complex business problems
amidst ambiguity. You will demonstrate competencies through coursework, assessments, peer-to-peer interactions,
simulations, and activities using industry tools. Throughout the program, you will curate a professional portfolio and
create your personal brand to enhance your marketability. The program concludes with an experiential learning
capstone course where you will deliver a strategic communications project to a business client to culminate the skills
learned throughout the program.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
PWS 2100 D640 Giving, Receiving and Incorporating Feedback 3 1
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 1
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 2
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 2
Structures and Legal Environment
PWS 2200 D641 Adapting to Ambiguity 3 2
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 3
COMS 2100 D644 Foundations of Strategic Communications 3 3
PWS 2300 D642 Empathy and Inclusive Collaboration 3 3
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 3
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 4
Presentations
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 4
Accounting
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 4
PWS 2400 D643 Navigating Complex Problems 3 4
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 5
Applications
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 5
COMM 1721 D246 Influential Communication through Visual 3 5
Design and Storytelling
COMS 3100 D645 Crafting a Communications Strategy Through 3 5
Research and Data Insights
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 6
Logistics, and Operations
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 6
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 6
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 71
COMS 3200 D646 Delivering a Communications Strategy 3 7
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 7
Contact
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 7
COMS 3300 D647 Evaluating a Communications Strategy 3 7
COMS 3400 D648 Leveraging AI and Technology in Strategic 3 8
Communications
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 8
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 8
Connections
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 8
HRM 2110 D351 Functions of Human Resource Management 3 9
COMS 3500 D649 Crisis Communication 3 9
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 9
BUS 2111 D361 Business Simulation 4 9
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 10
COMS 4100 D650 Communications Applied Learning Capstone 3 10
BSC 202409 Total CUs: 115
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 72
Bachelor of Science, Finance
B.S. Finance will prepare graduates for the challenges of the profession by focusing on five key areas: Personal
Finance, Financial Analysis and Management, Risk Management, Accounting and Financial Technology and
Innovation.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
FINC 2000 D363 Personal Finance 3 1
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 2
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 3
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 3
Accounting
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 3
HRM 2110 D351 Functions of Human Resource Management 3 4
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 4
Presentations
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 4
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 4
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 5
Structures and Legal Environment
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 5
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 5
BUS 2030 D075 Information Technology Management 3 5
Essentials
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 6
Logistics, and Operations
FINC 3103 D366 Financial Statement Analysis 3 6
ACCT 3350 D216 Business Law for Accountants 3 6
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 6
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 7
Contact
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 7
FINC 3100 D362 Corporate Finance 3 7
HRM 3110 D352 Employment and Labor Law 3 7
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 73
FINC 3101 D364 Financial Management I 3 8
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 8
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 8
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 9
FINC 3102 D365 Financial Management II 3 9
FINC 3105 D368 Enterprise Risk Management 3 9
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 9
with Others
HIST 1017 D267 US History: Stories of American Democracy 3 10
FINC 3104 D367 Innovation in Finance 3 10
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 10
FINC 3106 D369 Finance Capstone 3 10
BSFIN 202304 Total CUs: 120
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 74
Bachelor of Science, Healthcare Administration
The Bachelor of Science in Healthcare Administration is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a
variety of administrative and management careers in the healthcare industry. Graduates with a major in Healthcare
Administration will combine a set of general business competencies with a set of in-depth competencies from the field
of healthcare administration. These competencies align with a variety of entry-level non-clinical and healthcare service
administrative positions at skilled nursing facilities, residential care facilities, small to large healthcare facilities,
insurance companies, and community health organizations; as well as organizations focused on developing,
manufacturing, and providing medical related products or services, case management organizations and the financial
services sector of the healthcare industry.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
HCA 2100 D545 Healthcare Administration Evolution, Systems, 3 1
and Leadership
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 2
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
HCA 3130 D776 Healthcare Leadership and Community 3 2
Engagement
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
HCA 3100 D546 Healthcare Policy and Governance 4 3
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 3
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 3
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 3
HLTH 4905 D255 Professional Practice Experience I: Technical 3 4
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 4
with Others
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 4
Presentations
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 4
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 5
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 5
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 5
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 6
BUS 3100 C723 Quantitative Analysis For Business 3 6
HCA 3110 D547 Evidence-Based Healthcare Administration 4 6
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 6
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 7
BUS 2600 C716 Business Communication 3 7
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 75
HCA 3120 D548 Emergency Management and Planning in 4 7
Healthcare
HRM 3510 D353 Strategic Training and Development 3 8
MGMT 4100 C720 Operations and Supply Chain Management 3 8
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 8
Contact
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 8
HCA 5100 D549 Exploring Emerging Trends in Healthcare 4 9
Administration
HCA 5110 D580 Healthcare Administration Capstone 4 9
BSHA 202407 Total CUs: 110
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 76
Bachelor of Science, Supply Chain and Operations Management
The Bachelor of Science in Supply Chain and Operations Management (BSSCOM) degree is a competency-based
degree program that develops operational skills that can be applied to a variety of sectors, such as corporations, small
businesses, government agencies, nonprofits, healthcare, and educational institutions. The BSSCOM program
addresses business needs and helps business leaders overcome challenges by equipping them with skills in data
analysis, process review, critical thinking, and execution of operational improvements. The competencies in this
program measure in-demand skills to prepare learners to create and maintain a bridge between business
management and technology, operations, and supply chain functions (distribution, logistics, transportation,
warehousing, inventory management, procurement, and demand planning).Through the program learners will learn
how to ask critical business questions, form hypotheses that can be proven or disproven by data, translate raw data
into usable and valuable business intelligence, and tell a business story based on data that provides companies with a
competitive edge in their respective industries. The program concludes with an experiential learning capstone course
where learners will deliver an operational project that showcases the skills they acquired throughout the program.The
BSSCOM program includes three embedded certificates: Business Analytics, Operations Excellence, and Solutions
Design Thinking. The three certificates are included in the Degree Plan and may be shared digitally in the WGU
Achievement Wallet. This program also offers learners the option of earning recognized third-party professional
credentials and certificates as they progress in their degree.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072 Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 1
Presentations
BUS 2780 D468 Discovering Data 3 1
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 2
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 3
Structures and Legal Environment
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
BUS 2770 D467 Exploring Data 3 3
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 3
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 4
BUS 2760 D466 Analyzing and Visualizing Data 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 4
Accounting
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 5
with Others
BUS 2750 D465 Data Applications 3 5
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 5
BUS 3000 C717 Business Ethics 3 5
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
BUS 2740 D464 Managing Operations 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 77
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 6
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 6
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 7
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 7
BUS 3900 D470 Transportation, Logistics, and Distribution 3 7
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 7
HIST 1017 D267 US History: Stories of American Democracy 3 8
BUS 2111 D361 Business Simulation 4 8
BUS 3910 D471 Global Supply Chain Management 3 8
BUS 3890 D469 Quality, Continuous Improvement, and Lean 3 8
Six Sigma
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 9
BUS 4900 D472 21st Century Operations and Supply Chain 3 9
PHIL 1110 D428 Design Thinking for Business 3 9
BUS 4910 D473 Solutions Design and Visualization Capstone 3 9
BSSCOM 202306 Total CUs: 110
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 78
Bachelor of Science, User Experience Design
The Bachelor of Science in User Experience Design is a competency-based program that blends creativity, visual
design concepts, and business strategy. The program competencies align with industry-demanded skills applicable to
various industries, equipping you to design user-centered products and experiences that solve business problems.
Through the program, you will learn design principles and tools for an industry-focused learning experience. The
program also develops collaborative skills that involve leveraging diverse perspectives, incorporating feedback, and
adeptly navigating complex business problems amidst ambiguity. You will demonstrate competencies through
coursework, assessments, peer-to-peer interactions, and visual design activities using industry tools. Over the course
of the program, you will create a professional portfolio and personal brand to enhance your marketability. The
program concludes with an experiential learning capstone course where you will deliver a design project to a business
client to culminate the skills learned through the program.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715 Organizational Behavior 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
PWS 2100 D640 Giving, Receiving and Incorporating Feedback 3 1
BUS 2090 D082 Emotional and Cultural Intelligence 3 1
BUS 2080 D081 Innovative and Strategic Thinking 3 2
DES 2100 D651 Foundations of Design 3 2
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 2
PWS 2200 D641 Adapting to Ambiguity 3 2
DES 3100 D652 Design Applications 3 3
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 3
PWS 2300 D642 Empathy and Inclusive Collaboration 3 3
BUS 2060 D078 Business Environment Applications I: Business 2 3
Structures and Legal Environment
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 4
Presentations
ACCT 2020 D196 Principles of Financial and Managerial 3 4
Accounting
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 4
PWS 2400 D643 Navigating Complex Problems 3 4
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 5
Applications
BUS 2040 D076 Finance Skills for Managers 3 5
COMM 1721 D246 Influential Communication through Visual 3 5
Design and Storytelling
DES 3200 D653 Empathizing, Defining, and Ideating 3 5
BUS 2061 D079 Business Environment Applications II: Process, 2 6
Logistics, and Operations
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 6
MGMT 3400 C722 Project Management 3 6
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 6
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 79
BUS 2050 D077 Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer 3 7
Contact
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 7
DES 3300 D654 Prototyping and Iterating I 3 7
DES 3400 D655 Prototyping and Iterating II 3 8
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 8
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 8
Connections
ECON 2000 D089 Principles of Economics 3 8
HRM 2110 D351 Functions of Human Resource Management 3 9
DES 3500 D656 Leveraging AI and Technology in Design 3 9
BUS 2070 D080 Managing in a Global Business Environment 3 9
BUS 2111 D361 Business Simulation 4 9
MGMT 2700 D253 Values-Based Leadership 3 10
DES 4100 D657 Design Applied Learning Capstone 3 10
BSUXD 202410 Total CUs: 115
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 80
Master of Business Administration
The Master of Business Administration program is specifically designed for experienced business professionals and
managers seeking upward career mobility or professionals who want to broaden their business knowledge.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MGMT 6020 C215 Operations Management 3 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
MGMT 6900 C216 MBA Capstone 4 4
MBA 201404 Total CUs: 34
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 81
MBA, IT Management
The Master of Business Administration-Information Technology Management is specifically designed for experienced
business professionals and managers seeking upward career mobility in the information technology arena. The
program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-level information technology management position in business,
industry, and non-profit organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
ITM 5000 MGT2 IT Project Management 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 2
ITM 6000 MMT2 IT Strategic Solutions 4 2
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 3
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 3
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
ITM 6900 C218 MBA, Information Technology Management 4 4
Capstone
MBAITM 201408 Total CUs: 35
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 82
Master of Business Administration, Healthcare Administration
The Master of Business Administration, Healthcare Administration is specifically designed for those in an array of
leadership roles as well as those transitioning into healthcare from a different industry to develop strong health care
leaders by strengthening your analytical and critical thinking skills. The program prepares you for a mid-level to upper-
level management position in private and public sectors of the healthcare industry including hospitals, health system
management, consulting, physician practices, and government and non-government agencies.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 6020 C215 Operations Management 3 1
HCM 5000 AFT2 Accreditation Audit 4 1
ACCT 5000 C213 Accounting for Decision Makers 3 2
FINC 6000 C214 Financial Management 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 3
MKTG 5000 C212 Marketing 3 3
HCM 6000 AMT2 Service Line Development 4 3
ECON 5000 C211 Global Economics for Managers 3 4
HCM 6900 C219 MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone 4 4
MBAHA 202507 Total CUs: 36
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 83
Master of Science, Management and Leadership
The Master of Science, Management and Leadership degree program focuses on management and leadership skills
that can be applied to multiple settings, including business, government, non-profit, or education. The program
prepares you with knowledge and skills to lead through collaboration, team building, interpersonal communication and
virtual environments. You will learn applicable leadership skills to foster creativity, innovation and change. The
program includes topics such as organizational planning, leadership, conflict resolution and negotiation,
communication and other management skills. You will enhance your ability to manage in a dynamic business
environment that promotes growth, creativity and innovation. You will demonstrate the essential leadership practices
of inspiring a vision, encouraging others to act, data-driven strategic planning, ethical reasoning, negotiation, critical
thinking, and complex problem solving, which are all necessary to be successful leaders.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 5020 C203 Becoming an Effective Leader 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
BUS 5000 C201 Business Acumen 3 2
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 2
MGMT 6000 C206 Ethical Leadership 3 2
MGMT 5030 C205 Leading Teams 3 3
MGMT 6040 C208 Change Management and Innovation 3 3
MGMT 6050 C209 Strategic Management 3 3
MGMT 6910 C210 Management and Leadership Capstone 4 4
MSML 202007 Total CUs: 31
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 84
Master of Science in Marketing, Digital Marketing Specialization
The Master of Science in Marketing with a specialization in Digital Marketing is a competency-based degree program
that develops digital marketing skills that can be applied to a variety of sectors, such as corporations, small
businesses, government agencies, non-profits, and healthcare and education institutions. The competencies in this
program measure in-demand skills preparing you to develop, manage, and lead digital marketing activities and
campaigns using email marketing, social media marketing, and e-commerce. You will demonstrate competencies of
creative and written digital marketing skills through coursework, assessments, simulations, and activities using
industry platforms and tools. The program concludes with an experiential learning capstone course where you will
deliver a digital marketing project to a business client to culminate the skills learned throughout the program. Industry
certifications are also included in the program..
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 5040 D263 Frameworks for Strategic Decision-Making 3 1
MKTG 5010 D373 Marketing in the Digital Era 3 1
MKTG 5020 D374 Market Research 3 2
MKTG 5030 D375 Marketing Communications and Storytelling 3 2
MKTG 5040 D376 Product, Price, and Customer Experience 3 2
MKTG 6000 D377 Digital Marketing Foundations 3 3
MKTG 6020 D379 Social Media Marketing 3 3
MKTG 6030 D380 Email Marketing 3 3
MKTG 6040 D381 E-Commerce and Marketing Analytics 3 4
MKTG 6070 D384 Marketing Experiential Capstone 3 4
MSMK 202301 Total CUs: 33
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 85
Master of Science in Marketing, Marketing Analytics Specialization
The Master of Science in Marketing with a specialization in Marketing Analytics is a competency-based degree
program that develops digital marketing analytical skills that can be applied to a variety of sectors, such as
corporations, small businesses, government agencies, non-profits, and healthcare and education institutions. The
competencies in this program measure in-demand skills using industry-standard techniques to gather, analyze, and
report digital marketing data for decision-making purposes. You will demonstrate competencies using technical and
analytical skills in digital marketing analysis, search engine optimization, and e-commerce. The program concludes
with an experiential learning capstone course where you will deliver a digital marketing analytics project to a business
client to culminate the skills learned throughout the program. Industry certifications are also included in the program.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
MGMT 5040 D263 Frameworks for Strategic Decision-Making 3 1
MKTG 5010 D373 Marketing in the Digital Era 3 1
MKTG 5020 D374 Market Research 3 2
MKTG 5030 D375 Marketing Communications and Storytelling 3 2
MKTG 5040 D376 Product, Price, and Customer Experience 3 2
MKTG 6010 D378 Digital Marketing Science 4 3
MKTG 6040 D381 E-Commerce and Marketing Analytics 3 3
MKTG 6050 D382 Digital Marketing Analytics 3 3
MKTG 6060 D383 Search Engine Optimization 3 4
MKTG 6070 D384 Marketing Experiential Capstone 3 4
MSMKA 202303 Total CUs: 34
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 86
Master of Science in Accounting, Auditing Specialization
The Master of Science in Accounting (MAcc) degree is a competency-based program that provides advanced
accounting knowledge and skills for a successful career as a professional accountant in public accounting, industry,
government, and non-profit organizations. Graduates of the program will obtain substantial knowledge in a wide range
of subject matter that can lead to a career in financial accounting, financial analysis, corporate treasury, tax
accounting, auditing, and forensic examination, to name a few.After completing five foundational courses, learners will
have the option to pursue one of four tracks: Financial Reporting, Taxation, Auditing, or Management Accounting.
Each of these tracks is designed to prepare learners to sit for one or more of the following: the Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) Evolution exam, the Certified Management Accounting (CMA) exam, the Certified Internal Auditor
(CIA) exam and/or the Certified Fraud Examiners exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
ACCT 5310 D550 Ethics for Accountants 3 1
ACCT 5315 D551 Fraud and Forensic Accounting 3 1
ACCT 6301 D252 Accounting Research and Critical Thinking 3 2
ACCT 5320 D552 Data Analytics for Accountants I 3 2
ACCT 5325 D553 Data Analytics for Accountants II 3 2
ACCT 6201 D251 Advanced Auditing 3 3
ACCT 6340 D560 Internal Auditing I 3 3
ACCT 6350 D562 Internal Auditing II 3 3
ACCT 6345 D561 Information Systems for Accounting and 3 4
Control
MACCA 202412 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 87
Master of Science in Accounting, Financial Reporting Specialization
The Master of Science in Accounting (MAcc) degree is a competency-based program that provides advanced
accounting knowledge and skills for a successful career as a professional accountant in public accounting, industry,
government, and non-profit organizations. Graduates of the program will obtain substantial knowledge in a wide range
of subject matter that can lead to a career in financial accounting, financial analysis, corporate treasury, tax
accounting, auditing, and forensic examination, to name a few.After completing five foundational courses, learners will
have the option to pursue one of four tracks: Financial Reporting, Taxation, Auditing, or Management Accounting.
Each of these tracks is designed to prepare learners to sit for one or more of the following: the Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) Evolution exam, the Certified Management Accounting (CMA) exam, the Certified Internal Auditor
(CIA) exam and/or the Certified Fraud Examiners exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
ACCT 5310 D550 Ethics for Accountants 3 1
ACCT 5315 D551 Fraud and Forensic Accounting 3 1
ACCT 6301 D252 Accounting Research and Critical Thinking 3 2
ACCT 5320 D552 Data Analytics for Accountants I 3 2
ACCT 5325 D553 Data Analytics for Accountants II 3 2
ACCT 5105 D554 Advanced Financial Accounting I 3 3
ACCT 6315 D555 Advanced Financial Accounting II 3 3
ACCT 6320 D556 Corporate Financial Analysis 3 3
ACCT 5201 D250 Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting 3 4
ACCT 6201 D251 Advanced Auditing 3 4
MACCF 202412 Total CUs: 33
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 88
Master of Science in Accounting, Management Accounting Specialization
The Master of Science in Accounting (MAcc) degree is a competency-based program that provides advanced
accounting knowledge and skills for a successful career as a professional accountant in public accounting, industry,
government, and non-profit organizations. Graduates of the program will obtain substantial knowledge in a wide range
of subject matter that can lead to a career in financial accounting, financial analysis, corporate treasury, tax
accounting, auditing, and forensic examination, to name a few.After completing five foundational courses, learners will
have the option to pursue one of four tracks: Financial Reporting, Taxation, Auditing, or Management Accounting.
Each of these tracks is designed to prepare learners to sit for one or more of the following: the Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) Evolution exam, the Certified Management Accounting (CMA) exam, the Certified Internal Auditor
(CIA) exam and/or the Certified Fraud Examiners exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
ACCT 5310 D550 Ethics for Accountants 3 1
ACCT 5315 D551 Fraud and Forensic Accounting 3 1
ACCT 6301 D252 Accounting Research and Critical Thinking 3 2
ACCT 5320 D552 Data Analytics for Accountants I 3 2
ACCT 5325 D553 Data Analytics for Accountants II 3 2
ACCT 6335 D559 Advanced Managerial Accounting 3 3
ACCT 6320 D556 Corporate Financial Analysis 3 3
ACCT 6340 D560 Internal Auditing I 3 3
ACCT 6345 D561 Information Systems for Accounting and 3 4
Control
MACCM 202412 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 89
Master of Science in Accounting, Taxation Specialization
The Master of Science in Accounting (MAcc) degree is a competency-based program that provides advanced
accounting knowledge and skills for a successful career as a professional accountant in public accounting, industry,
government, and non-profit organizations. Graduates of the program will obtain substantial knowledge in a wide range
of subject matter that can lead to a career in financial accounting, financial analysis, corporate treasury, tax
accounting, auditing, and forensic examination, to name a few.After completing five foundational courses, learners will
have the option to pursue one of four tracks: Financial Reporting, Taxation, Auditing, or Management Accounting.
Each of these tracks is designed to prepare learners to sit for one or more of the following: the Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) Evolution exam, the Certified Management Accounting (CMA) exam, the Certified Internal Auditor
(CIA) exam and/or the Certified Fraud Examiners exam.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 1
ACCT 5310 D550 Ethics for Accountants 3 1
ACCT 5315 D551 Fraud and Forensic Accounting 3 1
ACCT 6301 D252 Accounting Research and Critical Thinking 3 2
ACCT 5320 D552 Data Analytics for Accountants I 3 2
ACCT 5325 D553 Data Analytics for Accountants II 3 2
ACCT 5105 D554 Advanced Financial Accounting I 3 3
ACCT 6325 D557 Corporate Taxation 3 3
ACCT 6315 D555 Advanced Financial Accounting II 3 3
ACCT 6330 D558 Pass-Through Taxation 3 4
MACCT 202412 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 90
Master of Science, Human Resource Management
The Master of Science in Human Resource Management is a competency-based, online, graduate degree program
with industry-relevant coursework designed to align with both SHRM (Society for Human Resource Management) and
HRCI (HR Certification Institute) curriculum content standards and guidelines. These standards and guidelines help
students prepare for either, or both, the SHRM-CP or the HRCI PHR certification exams. This compact program
contains 10 courses that combine general business competencies with core human resource (HR) management skills
and has a unique capstone experience that embeds the SHRM Inclusive Workplace Culture specialty credential.
Along the way to degree completion, students will also earn a WGU certificate in HR Technology and Analytics for
Decision Making. Throughout the program, themes of strategic HR decision-making and critical thinking, global HR
best practices, and DEI are interspersed within the coursework. The competencies and skills in this program align with
a variety of positions such as HR managers and directors, HR business partners, training and development
specialists, talent acquisition managers, total rewards specialists, DEI managers, senior-level HR positions such as
vice president of HR and chief human resource officer (CHRO), and HR information systems (HRIS) analysts.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 5000 C200 Managing Organizations and Leading People 3 1
BUS 5000 C201 Business Acumen 3 1
HRM 5010 C202 Managing Human Capital 3 1
MHRM 5000 D432 HR Compliance and Employee Relations 3 2
MGMT 5010 C204 Management Communication 3 2
MGMT 6010 C207 Data-Driven Decision Making 3 2
MHRM 6000 D433 Talent Acquisition and Development 3 3
MHRM 6020 D435 HR Technology and People Analytics 3 3
MHRM 6010 D434 Future Focused Total Rewards 3 3
MHRM 6030 D436 Inclusive Workplace Culture Capstone 3 4
MSHRM 202311 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 91
Leavitt School of Health
Leavitt School of Health Tenets:
• Each student is unique. We align our systems and resources using Learner-Centered Faculty (LCF) tools to
support each personal journey toward graduation and success in their chosen healthcare career.
• Access matters. The lack of diversity in ethnicity and gender in the healthcare workforce contributes to the
continued disparities in health outcomes. We create access for diverse populations through onramps and visible
career pathways to change the composition of the healthcare workforce and improve health outcomes.
• Equity is an opportunity equalizer. We eliminate barriers and allocate resources to provide equity in access and
education for our learners, so they demonstrate equity in the care and services they provide as graduates. We
focus on improving fairness and eliminating bias in teaching and learning.
• Data matters. Our insights come from examining (and improving) processes at the program level and every level
of the college using the lens of our learner populations as our guide. Disparities in learner outcomes signal needed
changes in student support and data informs our ability to adjust in agile ways.
• Our learning products power the healthcare workforce. We continually evaluate the learning needs of the
healthcare industry and diversify our portfolio to include in-demand health professions degrees, microcredentials
and other learning products that position students for career success and provide needed talent to employers.
• Value and affordability are of equal importance. High quality, accredited health professions education requires
validation of competencies for patient and system engagement through supervised field experiences. We ensure
that learners are well prepared for the complexities of practice and carefully evaluate costs, so students have an
affordable, relevant education while ensuring quality and college sustainability.
• Partnerships accelerate our impact. We accelerate our reach and impact through mutually beneficial
partnerships. These relationships include donors, employers, educational institutions and healthcare industry
organizations and associations.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 92
Bachelor of Science, Nursing - Prelicensure (Pre-Nursing)
The prelicensure BSN degree program prepares graduates to sit for the national registered nurses licensing
examination (NCLEX) and to practice as a Registered Nurse. The program focuses on contemporary nursing
practices to build nursing skills and competencies using competency-based learning. It is structured to develop
competent BSN prepared nurses in a program that is sustainable, scalable, and nationally relevant. The prelicensure
BSN degree program includes strategic partnerships between the Western Governors University Nursing Program
and healthcare employers who provide clinical practice sites. Graduates are prepared to function as competent
registered nurse and part of the healthcare team in many different settings.The prelicensure BSN degree program
includes the study of medical-surgical (including critical care), psychiatric/mental health, pediatrics, obstetrics, and
community/population health nursing and includes courses on evidence-based practice, research, leadership, nursing
informatics, and professional nursing roles and values. Graduates are eligible to apply to take the NCLEX-RN exam
for state licensure and be prepared to seek registered nursing positions in various settings including acute and non-
acute settings as well as for military, U.S. Public Health, VA appointments, roles in school, community, and
occupational health settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MSN programs at the end of their studies This
degree program is delivered in a hybrid format with online and distance learning plus in person high fidelity simulation
labs and in person hands on clinical experiences.The WGU prelicensure BSN degree program is evidence-based and
developed according to The Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice from the
American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2021) (click here to view). In addition, it incorporates competencies and
standards from professional organizations and state regulations. The program is accredited by CCNE and identified
as an NLN Center of Excellence in Nursing Education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 1
SCIE 2030 D425 Introduction to Chemistry 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 2
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 2
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 2
Connections
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental 4 3
Approach
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 3
NURS 2001 D440 Health and Wellness Through Nutritional 3 3
Science
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 4
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 4
NURS 2002 D441 Medical Dosage Calculations and 3 4
Pharmacology
NURS 1011 D439 Foundations of Nursing 3 4
BSPNTR 202303 Total CUs: 61
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 93
Bachelor of Science, Nursing - Prelicensure (Nursing)
The prelicensure BSN degree program prepares graduates to sit for the national registered nurses licensing
examination (NCLEX) and to practice as a Registered Nurse. The program focuses on contemporary nursing
practices to build nursing skills and competencies using competency-based learning. It is structured to develop
competent BSN prepared nurses in a program that is sustainable, scalable, and nationally relevant. The prelicensure
BSN degree program includes strategic partnerships between the Western Governors University Nursing Program
and healthcare employers who provide clinical practice sites. Graduates are prepared to function as competent
registered nurse and part of the healthcare team in many different settings.The prelicensure BSN degree program
includes the study of medical-surgical (including critical care), psychiatric/mental health, pediatrics, obstetrics, and
community/population health nursing and includes courses on evidence-based practice, research, leadership, nursing
informatics, and professional nursing roles and values. Graduates are eligible to apply to take the NCLEX-RN exam
for state licensure and be prepared to seek registered nursing positions in various settings including acute and non-
acute settings as well as for military, U.S. Public Health, VA appointments, roles in school, community, and
occupational health settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MSN programs at the end of their studies This
degree program is delivered in a hybrid format with online and distance learning plus in person high fidelity simulation
labs and in person hands on clinical experiences.The WGU prelicensure BSN degree program is evidence-based and
developed according to The Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice from the
American Association of Colleges of Nursing (2021) (click here to view). In addition, it incorporates competencies and
standards from professional organizations and state regulations. The program is accredited by CCNE and identified
as an NLN Center of Excellence in Nursing Education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 3115 D442 Basic Nursing Skills 3 1
NURS 3116 D443 Health Assessment 3 1
NURS 3117 D444 Adult Health I 5 1
NURS 3600 D218 Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional 3 1
Growth
NURS 3118 D445 Intermediate Nursing Skills 3 2
NURS 3119 D446 Adult Health II 5 2
NURS 3120 D447 Women's and Children's Nursing 5 2
NURS 3610 D219 Scholarship in Nursing Practice 3 2
NURS 3122 D449 Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing 5 3
NURS 3123 D450 Community Health and Population-Focused 5 3
Nursing
NURS 3620 D220 Information Technology in Nursing Practice 3 3
NURS 3630 D221 Organizational Systems and Healthcare 3 3
Transformation
NURS 3126 D453 Advanced Nursing Skills 2 4
NURS 3127 D454 Adult Health III 5 4
NURS 3128 D455 Professional Nursing Role Transition 6 4
BSNPLTR 202303 Total CUs: 59
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 94
Bachelor of Science, Nursing
The RN to BSN degree builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma
levels. Initial licensure programs prepare graduates for RN licensure with courses in the biological and social sciences
and nursing. The BSN degree for RNs expands knowledge in areas of research, theory, leadership, community
concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in healthcare. Graduates are prepared to
function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings. Graduates are eligible for military, U.S.
Public Health, and VA appointments as well as roles in school health, community, occupational, and other non-acute
care settings. BSN graduates are also prepared to enter MSN programs. All work in this degree program is online and
at a distance. The WGU RN to BSN program is evidence-based and developed according to the AACN Essentials. In
addition, it incorporates competencies and standards from other specialty organizations.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and 2 2
Leadership in Healthcare
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 2
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 3
with Others
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 3
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental 4 4
Approach
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 4
Connections
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 4
NURS 3600 D218 Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional 3 5
Growth
NURS 3610 D219 Scholarship in Nursing Practice 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 5
NURS 3620 D220 Information Technology in Nursing Practice 3 5
NURS 3630 D221 Organizational Systems and Healthcare 3 6
Transformation
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3672 E225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 6
NURS 3662 E224 Global and Population Health 4 7
NURS 3660 D226 BSNU Capstone 3 7
BSNU 202410 Total CUs: 120
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 95
Bachelor of Science, Health Information Management
The Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management provides a solid foundation in healthcare information
systems and data management technologies for healthcare organizations including healthcare regulation, project
management of health systems, databases, and security. In addition to the health information management content,
the degree program includes a broad collegiate education. The program is designed for those who have some
technical or clinical knowledge in a health care environment and are ready to move to increased levels of expertise
and knowledge in the health information management field. The health information management component of the
Bachelor of Science program consists of the following areas of study: Healthcare Data, Health Information
Technology, Medical Terminology, Pathophysiology and Pharmacology. There are several other areas of study that
students master including Fundamentals of IT in Healthcare, Legal and Ethical Considerations in Healthcare,
Leadership and Management, Anatomy and Physiology, Healthcare Compliance and Coding, Project Management,
Financial Resource Management, and Healthcare Statistics. There are two professional practice experiences required
for the program. At the end of the program, students complete a capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 2050 D389 Learning Strategies in Higher Education 4 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
HLTH 2012 D391 Healthcare Ecosystems 3 1
HLTH 3501 C802 Foundations in Healthcare Information 4 1
Management
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 2
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 2
with Others
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
HIM 2150 C804 Medical Terminology 3 3
BIO 1100 D203 Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology 3 3
HIM 3205 C816 Healthcare System Applications 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 4
HLTH 3315 C803 Data Analytics and Information Governance 4 4
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 4
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 4
HIM 2002 D190 Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems 4 5
HIM 2104 C810 Foundations in Healthcare Data Management 3 5
HIM 2215 C801 Health Information Law and Regulations 4 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
HIM 2507 C805 Pathophysiology 3 6
HLTH 2422 D398 Introduction to Pharmacology 3 6
HIM 4511 C815 Quality and Performance Management and 4 6
Methods
HIM 2515 C808 Classification Systems 4 6
HLTH 2600 D583 Foundations in Public Health 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 96
HIM 3215 C807 Healthcare Compliance 3 7
HIM 3701 C811 Healthcare Financial Resource Management 4 7
HIM 4610 C812 Healthcare Reimbursement 4 7
HIM 4502 C813 Healthcare Statistics and Research 3 8
HLTH 2100 D033 Healthcare Information Systems Management 3 8
HLTH 4905 D255 Professional Practice Experience I: Technical 3 8
HLTH 3000 D257 Healthcare Project Management 4 8
HLTH 2120 D256 Principles of Management in Health 3 9
Information Management
HLTH 3100 D258 Organizational Leadership in Healthcare 3 9
HLTH 4906 D259 Professional Practice Experience II: 4 9
Management
HIM 4507 D260 Health Information Management Capstone 4 9
BSHIM 202504 Total CUs: 122
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 97
Bachelor of Science, Health and Human Services
The Bachelor of Science in Health and Human Services prepares graduates for a variety of entry-level or career-
building positions within the health and human services industry. Graduates will be prepared to professionally
communicate with clients, care providers, care leaders, and care advocates using learned diversity, equity, and
inclusivity standards. Graduates will be equipped to advocate for clients in varied contexts, such as community
centers, rehabilitation facilities, hospitals, and skilled nursing facilities, to name a few. Graduates also will learn to
navigate value-based care systems and community public health, participating as a partner to communicate plan
interventions to clients, to promote client-centered holistic care, and to advocate integrated care management.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 2050 D389 Learning Strategies in Higher Education 4 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 1
PHIL 1031 D458 Introduction to Systems Thinking for Health 3 2
Professionals
HLTH 2130 D390 Introduction to Health and Human Services 3 2
HLTH 2012 D391 Healthcare Ecosystems 3 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 3
HLTH 4380 D577 Team Dynamics 3 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 3
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 4
HLTH 2160 D393 History of Healthcare in America 3 4
HLTH 2220 D394 Care for Individuals and Families 3 4
BIO 1100 D203 Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology 3 4
HIM 2150 C804 Medical Terminology 3 5
HLTH 3510 D565 Cultural Awareness and Ethics 3 5
HLTH 2320 D396 Evidence-Based Practice for Health and 3 5
Human Services
HLTH 3540 D568 Health Equity and Social Determinants of 3 5
Health
HLTH 2422 D398 Introduction to Pharmacology 3 6
HLTH 2500 D399 Introduction to Gerontology 3 6
HLTH 3300 D400 End-of-Life Care 3 6
HLTH 4330 D572 Career and Lifelong Learning 4 6
HLTH 3310 D401 Introduction to Epidemiology 3 7
HLTH 3320 D402 Community and Public Health 4 7
HLTH 4340 D573 Understanding Substance Abuse & Addiction 3 7
HLTH 3340 D404 Healthcare Values and Ethics 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 98
HLTH 4400 D579 Mental Health Awareness and Education 3 8
HLTH 4416 D405 Financial Resource Management and 4 8
Healthcare Reimbursement
HLTH 3350 D406 Health Literacy for the Client and Family 3 8
HLTH 3420 D407 Models of Care and Healthcare Trends 3 8
HLTH 4430 D408 Community Relations and Leadership 3 9
HLTH 4920 D409 Health and Human Services Professional Field 3 9
Experience
HLTH 4921 D410 Health & Human Services Professional 3 9
Capstone
BSHHS 202411 Total CUs: 111
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 99
Bachelor of Science, Health Science
The Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences is a comprehensive and interdisciplinary program that prepares students
with a strong foundation in the biological, social, and behavioral sciences. The program is designed to provide
students an entry point into the healthcare industry. Graduates will be equipped with the skills and knowledge needed
to contribute positively to the ever-evolving field of healthcare and make a meaningful impact on individual and
community. Graduates will be prepared to communicate with a variety of professionals in different settings. Graduates
of the Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences program are prepared for diverse career opportunities or additional
educational programs.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 2050 D389 Learning Strategies in Higher Education 4 1
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 2
with Others
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 2
SCIE 2030 D425 Introduction to Chemistry 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 2
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 3
Connections
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 3
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental 4 4
Approach
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 4
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 5
HLTH 4330 D572 Career and Lifelong Learning 4 5
RSCH 1000 D581 Introduction to Research Methods 3 5
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 5
HLTH 4340 D573 Understanding Substance Abuse & Addiction 3 6
HLTH 4310 D570 Cognitive Psychology 3 6
HLTH 3510 D565 Cultural Awareness and Ethics 3 6
HLTH 4350 D575 Health Psychology 3 6
HLTH 2600 D583 Foundations in Public Health 3 7
HLTH 3540 D568 Health Equity and Social Determinants of 3 7
Health
HLTH 3310 D401 Introduction to Epidemiology 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 100
HLTH 4060 D634 Health Sciences Capstone 3 7
BSHS 202406 Total CUs: 91
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 101
Bachelor of Science in Psychology
The Bachelor of Science in Psychology at WGU is a comprehensive program designed to equip graduates for diverse
career paths, including management, sales, human resources, social and community services, as well as behavioral
and mental health. This undergraduate program serves as a solid foundation for those aspiring to pursue advanced
degrees. The program offers a dynamic learning experience tailored to WGU students. Throughout the curriculum,
students cultivate essential skills in communication, scientific and critical inquiry, advocacy, professionalism, cultural
awareness, ethical conduct, self-regulation, and self-reflection. The coursework exposes students to key principles
and concepts in psychology, providing a well-rounded understanding of the field and informing their career planning.
Aligned with workforce demands and adhering to the American Psychological Association Guidelines for the
Undergraduate Psychology Major, the WGU Bachelor of Science in Psychology program ensures that graduates are
well-prepared to navigate the complexities of the professional landscape. The program concludes with a capstone
project, allowing students to apply their psychological knowledge to an area of personal interest, showcasing their
acquired skills and insights.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 2050 D389 Learning Strategies in Higher Education 4 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 1
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 2
with Others
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 2
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 3
HLTH 3500 D564 Theories of Personality 3 3
HLTH 3510 D565 Cultural Awareness and Ethics 3 3
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 3
Geography
HLTH 3520 D566 Psychology of Learning 3 4
HLTH 3530 D567 Social Psychology 3 4
RSCH 1000 D581 Introduction to Research Methods 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
HLTH 3540 D568 Health Equity and Social Determinants of 3 5
Health
HLTH 4300 D569 Adult Psychology 3 5
MATH 1800 D582 Introduction to Statistics for Research 3 5
HLTH 4310 D570 Cognitive Psychology 3 5
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 6
HLTH 4320 D571 Psychopathology 3 6
HLTH 4330 D572 Career and Lifelong Learning 4 6
BIO 1100 D203 Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology 3 6
HLTH 4340 D573 Understanding Substance Abuse & Addiction 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 102
COMM 1721 D246 Influential Communication through Visual 3 7
Design and Storytelling
HLTH 4350 D575 Health Psychology 3 7
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 7
Connections
HLTH 4360 D574 Neuropsychology 3 8
HLTH 4400 D579 Mental Health Awareness and Education 3 8
HLTH 3550 D616 Consumer Behavior 3 8
HLTH 4370 D576 Industrial and Organizational Psychology 3 8
HLTH 4380 D577 Team Dynamics 3 9
HLTH 4390 D578 Capstone in Psychology 4 9
BSPSY 202404 Total CUs: 106
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 103
Bachelor of Science, Public Health
The BS in Public Health program is designed to equip Learners with the necessary skills and knowledge to meet the
demands of the public health industry. Throughout the program, Learners will learn about various aspects of public
health, including promoting healthy lifestyles, safeguarding community health, and conducting research on infectious
disease prevention.While the primary focus of the program is community public health, it also covers a wide array of
related topics, such as women's or gender health, mental health, human sexuality, health and wellness, and both
chronic and infectious diseases.Upon completing the BSPH, our Learners will be well-prepared for careers in the
community public health sector. The program also serves as a steppingstone for those interested in pursuing the
Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH) degree at WGU. To facilitate this transition, bridge courses in leadership
and ethics, communication, and data-driven decision-making are part of latter terms in the program. This ensures that
Learners are fully prepared to excel in their future endeavors in public health.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 2050 D389 Learning Strategies in Higher Education 4 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
HLTH 2600 D583 Foundations in Public Health 3 1
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 2
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 2
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 2
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 2
Connections
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 3
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 3
HLTH 3540 D568 Health Equity and Social Determinants of 3 3
Health
BIO 1100 D203 Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology 3 4
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 4
RSCH 1000 D581 Introduction to Research Methods 3 4
HLTH 3320 D402 Community and Public Health 4 4
HLTH 2610 D584 Program Planning and Implementation 3 5
HLTH 2620 D585 Program Evaluation 3 5
HLTH 2630 D586 Public Health Policy 3 5
HLTH 4340 D573 Understanding Substance Abuse & Addiction 3 5
HLTH 4380 D577 Team Dynamics 3 6
HLTH 2640 D587 Gender and Health 3 6
HLTH 2650 D588 Human Sexuality 3 6
HLTH 3600 D589 Chronic and Infectious Diseases 3 6
HLTH 3310 D401 Introduction to Epidemiology 3 7
HLTH 4400 D579 Mental Health Awareness and Education 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 104
HLTH 3610 D590 Public Health Administration 3 7
HLTH 4330 D572 Career and Lifelong Learning 4 7
HLTH 3620 D591 Grant Writing 3 8
HLTH 5630 D592 Environmental Health 3 8
HLTH 5640 D593 Global Health 3 8
HLTH 5650 D594 Public Health Leadership and Administration 3 8
HLTH 4600 D595 Public Health Capstone 3 9
BSPH 202409 Total CUs: 104
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 105
Master of Science, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner (MSNUFNP) program is a cutting-edge competency-
based graduate program for nurses wishing to become advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs) with the Family
Nurse Practitioner (FNP) population focus. FNPs deliver cost-effective, holistic, high-quality primary care to
individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. The MSNUFNP program will prepare graduates to excel in
the assessment, diagnostic, prescriptive, and treatment processes of advanced practice, as well as in delivering
disease prevention and health promotion. In addition to the clinical skills graduates will develop in the MSNUFNP
program, graduates will be prepared to lead interprofessional healthcare teams, shape healthcare policy, and make
business decisions in order to more efficiently deliver high-quality, cost-effective care to individuals, families, and
communities. The MSNUFNP program is a blended program with the majority of the coursework delivered online, plus
hands-on clinical practice experiences occurring in the local community. Graduates of the MSNUFNP program are
eligible to sit for the FNP national certification examination of their choice. Additionally, the MSNUFNP program will
prepare graduates to successfully transition to clinical practice in delivering care to individuals, families, and
communities.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5800 D115 Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced 4 1
Practice Nurse
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 1
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 2
Nursing Care
NURS 6800 D116 Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced 4 2
Practice Nurse
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 2
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 3
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6810 D117 Advanced Health Assessment for the 4 3
Advanced Practice Nurse
NURS 6820 D118 Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice 3 3
Nurse
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 4
Nursing Practice
NURS 6830 D119 Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced 3 4
Practice Nurse
NURS 6840 D120 Special Populations Primary Care for the 3 4
Advanced Practice Nurse
NURS 6820 D121 Health Promotion of Patients and Populations 3 4
Across the Lifespan
NURS 6830 D122 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I 3 5
NURS 6861 D123 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II 3 5
NURS 6850 D124 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III 3 5
MSNUFNP 202003 Total CUs: 48
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 106
Master of Science, Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
The Master of Science, Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (MSNUPMHNP) program is a cutting-
edge competency-based graduate program for nurses wishing to become advanced practice registered nurses
(APRN) with the Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) population focus. PMHNPs deliver cost-
effective, holistic, high-quality mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan and
care setting. The MSNUPMHNP program will prepare graduates to excel in the assessment, diagnostic, prescriptive,
and psychotherapeutic treatment processes of advanced practice, as well as in delivering disease prevention and
health promotion. In addition to the clinical skills graduates will develop in the MSNUPMHNP program, graduates will
be prepared to lead interprofessional healthcare teams, shape healthcare policy, and make business decisions in
order to more efficiently deliver high-quality, cost-effective care to individuals, families, and communities across care
settings. The MSNUPMHNP program is a blended program with the majority of the coursework delivered online, plus
direct patient care clinical practice experiences occurring in the local community. Graduates of the MSNUPMHNP
program are eligible to sit for the PMHNP national certification examination. Additionally, the MSNUPMHNP program
will prepare graduates to successfully transition to clinical practice in delivering mental health care to individuals,
families, and communities across the lifespan and care settings.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5800 D115 Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced 4 1
Practice Nurse
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 1
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 1
Nursing Care
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 2
NURS 6800 D116 Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced 4 2
Practice Nurse
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 2
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 2
Nursing Practice
NURS 6810 D117 Advanced Health Assessment for the 4 3
Advanced Practice Nurse
NURS 6436 D343 Foundations of Advanced Psychiatric Mental 3 3
Health Practice
NURS 6437 D344 The Assessment and Diagnostic Process of 3 3
Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner Practice
NURS 6348 D345 Psychopharmacology for Advanced Psychiatric 3 4
Mental Health Practice
NURS 6439 D346 Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of 3 4
Adults and Older Adults Across Care Settings
NURS 6440 D347 Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of 3 4
Children and Adolescents Across Care
Settings
NURS 6480 D348 Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 3 5
Clinical Internship I
NURS 6481 D349 Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 3 5
Clinical Internship II
NURS 6482 D350 Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 3 5
Clinical Internship III
MSNUPMHNP 202203 Total CUs: 51
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 107
Master of Science, Nursing - Education (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science in Nursing, Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares graduates to be
academic nurse educators in various educational and practice settings. Graduates are prepared to lead collaborative
academic-practice partnerships to strengthen nursing practice by developing nurses who will lead and advance health
in diverse populations. As academic nurse educators, graduates demonstrate a professional presence by helping
nursing students acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies to work effectively in inter-professional teams across
a variety of academic and healthcare settings. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing Education content is based on
national standards and evidence-based research related to effective teaching, learning, curriculum design and
development and nursing role development. It provides the knowledge and skills that enable educators to teach
effectively in clinical and lab, online, hybrid, virtual and classroom learning environments. The content, resources,
activities, and assessments in this program are consistent with recommendations from American Association of
Colleges of Nursing (AACN), The Essentials of Master's Education in Nursing (2011) and the National League for
Nursing (NLN), Scope of Practice for Academic Nurse Educators (2012). The hallmarks of our program include: (a)
authentic learning experiences, b) evidence-based course preparation, and c) self-paced learning in an asynchronous
online learning environment. Developing context-based curriculum, objectives, and learning materials are an essential
aspect of an academic educator role. MSN Education graduates will experience theoretical applications and practical
perspectives regarding learning styles, the development and socialization of learners, strategies to facilitate learning,
and contemporary design and development of high-quality courses and assessments.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 1
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 1
Nursing Care
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 1
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 2
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 2
Nursing Practice
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 2
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and 3 3
Populations
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse 2 3
Environments
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student- 2 3
Centered Learning
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and 2 3
Development in Nursing Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for 3 4
Measuring Student Learning
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st 2 4
Century Nursing Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 4
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 4
MSNUED 202003 Total CUs: 36
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 108
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management is a competency-based program that prepares
graduates to be leaders and managers in diverse settings: hospitals, long term care facilities, community service
agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. Graduates use their organizational, analytic,
strategic planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills across healthcare organizations. The WGU
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management program content is evidence-based, drawing on national
standards and research related to creating work environments that are collaborative, interdisciplinary, and promote
effective functioning in complex nursing and healthcare environments. The Master of Science, Nursing -
Leadership/Management content and processes are consistent with the American Nurses Association (ANA)
Standards for Nurse Administrators and the American Organization for Nursing Leadership (AONL) competencies for
nursing managers and executives. The degree program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified nurse
administrators (nurse managers and nurse executives). This program consists of developing core knowledge related
to complexities of healthcare, access, quality, and costs for diverse populations. New nursing knowledge includes
research, theory, technology applied to nursing practice, evidence-based practice, ethics, and new roles for master's
prepared nurses. Areas of focus include organizational and leadership theories, strategic planning, regulatory
standards, risk management, principles of financial management, and concepts of human resource management. A
case study approach is used to examine organizational, financial, and personnel issues and their resolution. The
process for assessment, measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 1
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 1
Nursing Care
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 1
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 2
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 2
Nursing Practice
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 2
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and 3 3
Populations
NURS 6431 D155 Leading with Personal Mastery 2 3
NURS 6432 D156 Business Case Analysis for Healthcare 2 3
Improvement
NURS 6433 D157 Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption 2 3
NURS 6434 D158 Strategically Planning the Execution of a 2 4
Healthcare Improvement Project
NURS 6435 D159 Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating 2 4
Healthcare Improvements
NURS 6503 D160 Nursing Leadership and Management Field 3 4
Experience
NURS 6603 D161 Nursing Leadership and Management 2 4
Capstone
MSNULM 202011 Total CUs: 36
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 109
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics (BSN to MSN)
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics is a competency-based program that prepares graduates for a
rewarding career as a specialist in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge,
skills, and expertise to design, develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery
of safe, efficient and high-quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU Master of Science Nursing Informatics
program apply systems-thinking strategies to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and
distribution of healthcare needs in diverse populations. This program prepares students to select and use
contemporary technologies to collaborate with interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of
health education programs, evidence-based practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing
science, computer science and information science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced
informatics skills to improve health outcomes, such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters
degree program supports students in applying their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to
real-world situations where the use of information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and
coordinating care across multiple settings. Graduates of the WGU Master of Science Nursing Informatics program are
prepared to gather, document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a foundation for data-driven decisions that
inform practice processes and the implementation of interventions or strategies to improve healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 1
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 1
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 1
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 1
Nursing Care
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 2
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 2
Nursing Practice
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 2
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and 3 3
Populations
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 3
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 3
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management 2 3
Systems
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 4
NURS 6020 C854 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 4
NURS 6030 C855 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 4
MSNUNI 202003 Total CUs: 36
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 110
Master of Science, Nursing - Education (RN to MSN)
The Master of Science in Nursing Education degree is a competency-based program that prepares graduates to be
academic nurse educators in various educational and practice settings. Graduates are prepared to lead collaborative
academic-practice partnerships to strengthen nursing practice by developing nurses who will lead and advance health
in diverse populations. As academic nurse educators, graduates demonstrate a professional presence by helping
nursing students acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies to work effectively in inter-professional teams across
a variety of academic and healthcare settings. The WGU Master of Science in Nursing Education content is based on
national standards and evidence-based research related to effective teaching, learning, curriculum design and
development and nursing role development. It provides the knowledge and skills that enable educators to teach
effectively in clinical and lab, online, hybrid, virtual and classroom learning environments. The content, resources,
activities, and assessments in this program are consistent with recommendations from American Association of
Colleges of Nursing (AACN), The Essentials of Master's Education in Nursing (2011) and the National League for
Nursing (NLN), Scope of Practice for Academic Nurse Educators (2012). The hallmarks of our program include: (a)
authentic learning experiences, b) evidence-based course preparation, and c) self-paced learning in an asynchronous
online learning environment. Developing context-based curriculum, objectives, and learning materials are an essential
aspect of an academic educator role. MSN Education graduates will experience theoretical applications and practical
perspectives regarding learning styles, the development and socialization of learners, strategies to facilitate learning,
and contemporary design and development of high-quality courses and assessments.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and 2 2
Leadership in Healthcare
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 3
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 3
with Others
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 4
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental 4 5
Approach
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 5
Connections
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 6
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3660 D224 Global and Population Health 4 7
NURS 3670 D225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 7
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 7
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 8
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 111
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 8
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 9
Nursing Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 9
Nursing Care
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 9
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse 2 10
Environments
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student- 2 10
Centered Learning
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and 2 10
Development in Nursing Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for 3 11
Measuring Student Learning
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st 2 11
Century Nursing Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 11
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 11
MSRNNUEDGR 202202 Total CUs: 141
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 112
Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN)
The Master of Science, Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN) is a competency-based program that
builds on the foundation of students' previous nursing education at the associate degree or diploma levels. The BSN
portion of the program focuses on contemporary nursing practice, developing students' skills and competencies using
technology-based learning. It is structured to develop high quality, highly educated BSN nurses. Graduates are
equipped to function in new roles as members of healthcare teams in many settings by expanding their knowledge in
areas of research, theory, community concepts, healthcare policy, therapeutic interventions, and current trends in
health care. Graduates will be eligible for military, U.S. Public Health, and VA appointments, as well as roles in school
health, community, occupational, and other care settings. The MSN portion of the program further prepares graduates
to be leaders and managers in diverse settings; hospitals, long-term care facilities, community service agencies,
governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. Graduates use their organizational, analytic, strategic
planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills across diverse nursing and healthcare settings.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and 2 2
Leadership in Healthcare
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 3
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 3
with Others
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 4
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental 4 5
Approach
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 5
Connections
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 6
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3660 D224 Global and Population Health 4 7
NURS 3670 D225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 7
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 7
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 8
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 8
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 8
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 9
Nursing Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 9
Nursing Care
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 113
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 9
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 6431 D155 Leading with Personal Mastery 2 10
NURS 6432 D156 Business Case Analysis for Healthcare 2 10
Improvement
NURS 6433 D157 Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption 2 10
NURS 6434 D158 Strategically Planning the Execution of a 2 11
Healthcare Improvement Project
NURS 6435 D159 Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating 2 11
Healthcare Improvements
NURS 6503 D160 Nursing Leadership and Management Field 3 11
Experience
NURS 6603 D161 Nursing Leadership and Management 2 11
Capstone
MSRNNULMGR 202202 Total CUs: 141
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 114
Master of Science, Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN)
The Master of Science degree in Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN option) degree is a competency-based program
that builds on the foundation of previous nursing education at the associate or diploma levels. The BSN portion of the
degree focuses on contemporary nursing practice in the developing of skills and competencies using technology-
based learning. The master of science portion of the degree prepares graduates for a rewarding career as a specialist
in the field of Nursing Informatics. Informatics Nurse Specialists have the knowledge, skills, and expertise to design,
develop, implement, and evaluate Health Information Systems that support the delivery of safe, efficient and high-
quality healthcare services. Students in the WGU Master of Science Nursing Informatics program apply systems-
thinking strategies to transform data to wisdom for understanding the determinants and distribution of healthcare
needs in diverse populations. This program prepares students to select and use contemporary technologies to
collaborate with interprofessional teams for the development and implementation of health education programs,
evidence-based practices, and point-of-care policies. Through the integration of nursing science, computer science
and information science, students will develop competencies for performing advanced informatics skills to improve
health outcomes, such as data capture, management, mining, and analysis. This masters degree program supports
students in applying their knowledge and conceptual understanding of nursing informatics to real-world situations
where the use of information and communication technologies are essential for delivering and coordinating care
across multiple settings. Graduates are prepared to gather, document, and analyze outcome data that will serve as a
foundation for data-driven decisions that inform practice processes and the implementation of interventions or
strategies to improve healthcare outcomes.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 2000 C494 Advanced Standing for RN License 50 1
NURS 3114 D235 Interprofessional Communication and 2 2
Leadership in Healthcare
MATH 1100 C784 Applied Healthcare Statistics 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
SCIE 1011 D312 Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab 4 3
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 3
with Others
SCIE 1012 D313 Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab 4 3
PSYC 1010 C180 Introduction to Psychology 3 4
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 4
SOCG 1010 C273 Introduction to Sociology 3 4
NURS 1010 D311 Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental 4 5
Approach
HIST 1016 D266 World History: Diverse Cultures and Global 3 5
Connections
PSYC 1020 D202 Human Growth and Development 3 5
NURS 2508 D236 Pathophysiology 3 6
NURS 3640 D222 Comprehensive Health Assessment 3 6
NURS 2650 D223 Healthcare Policy and Economics 3 6
NURS 3660 D224 Global and Population Health 4 7
NURS 3670 D225 Emerging Professional Practice 3 7
NURS 5201 D024 Professional Presence and Influence 2 7
NURS 5202 D025 Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and 2 8
Interprofessional Practice
NURS 5206 D029 Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 115
NURS 5207 D030 Leadership and Management in Complex 3 8
Healthcare Systems
NURS 6308 D031 Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in 3 9
Nursing Practice
NURS 5203 D026 Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based 2 9
Nursing Care
NURS 5204 D027 Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations 3 9
NURS 5205 D028 Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and 3 10
Populations
NURS 5745 C790 Foundations in Nursing Informatics 2 10
NURS 6701 C797 Data Science and Analytics 2 10
NURS 6010 C792 Data Modeling and Database Management 2 10
Systems
NURS 6702 C798 Informatics System Analysis and Design 3 11
NURS 6020 C854 Nursing Informatics Field Experience 4 11
NURS 6030 C855 Nursing Informatics Capstone 2 11
MSRNNUNIFGR 202202 Total CUs: 141
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 116
Master of Healthcare Administration
The Master of Healthcare Administration degree requires completion of performance-assessment based courses and
a capstone culminating in the following program outcomes: Quality and process improvement, data analysis,
regulatory and ethical practices, management and leadership of the healthcare landscape, and strategic
management. The program also embeds themes of decision making, innovation, and performance management for
sustainability in health systems. Courses become progressively complex as the curriculum advances, integrating key
skill sets and a knowledge base that will promote career development in healthcare administration.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MHA 5110 D509 Innovative Solutions in Healthcare Leadership 3 1
MHA 5220 D510 Collaborative Leadership 3 1
MHA 5310 D511 Healthcare Models and Systems 2 1
MHA 5410 D512 Quality Improvement in Healthcare 3 2
MHA 5510 D513 Healthcare Financial Management 3 2
MHA 5600 D514 Analytical Methods of Healthcare Leaders 2 2
MHA 6210 D515 Enterprise Risk Management 3 3
MHA 6310 D516 Healthcare Information Technology 2 3
MHA 6410 D517 Population Healthcare Coordination 3 3
MHA 6510 D518 Challenges in Community Healthcare 3 4
MHA 6610 D519 Integrated Healthcare Leadership and 3 4
Administration
MHA 6910 D520 Healthcare Leadership and Administration 4 4
Capstone
MHA 202306 Total CUs: 34
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 117
Master of Public Health
The MPH program will prepare students to develop, implement, and evaluate public health programs. They will
demonstrate research methods needed to address public health illness and disease and evaluate the impact social
determinants of health have on health outcomes.Responding to the growing public health workforce shortage,
students who earn this degree will support their community's health by monitoring the community's health status and
needs, promoting disease prevention, strengthening community access to healthcare and public health resources,
and creating policies, plans and laws that positively impact the public's health.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
HLTH 5000 D617 Public Health Core Functions and Essential 3 1
Services
HLTH 5010 D618 Environmental Health 3 1
HLTH 5020 D619 Global Health 3 1
HLTH 5030 D620 Public Health Leadership and Administration 3 2
HLTH 5040 D621 Social and Behavioral Determinants of Health 3 2
HLTH 5050 D622 Public Health Assessment, Program Planning, 3 2
Intervention, and Evaluation
HLTH 6000 D623 Public Health Finance and Funding 3 3
HLTH 6010 D624 Biostatistics and Analysis 3 3
HLTH 6020 D625 Principles of Epidemiology 3 3
HLTH 6030 D626 Public Health Policy and Advocacy 3 4
D627 Public Health Education and Promotion 3 4
HLTH 4050 D628 Public Health Graduate Capstone 3 4
MPH 202408 Total CUs: 36
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 118
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner (Post-MSN)
The Family Nurse Practitioner Post-Master's Certificate program (PMCNUFNP) program is a cutting-edge
competency-based graduate program for nurses wishing to become advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs)
with the Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) population focus. FNPs deliver cost-effective, holistic, high-quality primary
care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. The PMCNUFNPprogram will prepare graduates to
excel in the assessment, diagnostic, prescriptive, and treatment processes of advanced practice primary care, as well
as in delivering disease prevention and health promotion. In addition to the clinical skills graduates will develop in
thePMCNUFNPprogram, graduates will be prepared to lead interprofessional healthcare teams, shape healthcare
policy, and make business decisions in order to more efficiently deliver high-quality, cost-effective care to individuals,
families, and communities across care settings. The PMCNUFNP program is a blended offering with the majority of
the coursework delivered online, plus hands-on clinical practice experiences occurring in the local community.
Graduates of the PMCNUFNP program are eligible to sit for the FNP national certification examination of their choice.
Additionally, the certificate will prepare graduates to successfully transition to clinical practice in delivering primary
care to individuals, families, and communities.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5800 D115 Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced 4 1
Practice Nurse
NURS 6800 D116 Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced 4 1
Practice Nurse
NURS 6810 D117 Advanced Health Assessment for the 4 2
Advanced Practice Nurse
NURS 6820 D118 Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice 3 2
Nurse
NURS 6830 D119 Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced 3 2
Practice Nurse
NURS 6840 D120 Special Populations Primary Care for the 3 3
Advanced Practice Nurse
NURS 6820 D121 Health Promotion of Patients and Populations 3 3
Across the Lifespan
NURS 6830 D122 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I 3 3
NURS 6861 D123 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II 3 4
NURS 6850 D124 Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III 3 4
PMCNUFNP 202306 Total CUs: 33
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 119
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (Post-MSN)
The Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Post Master's Certificate program (PMCNUPMHNP) is a cutting-
edge competency-based graduate program for nurses wishing to become advanced practice registered nurses
(APRN) with the Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) population focus. PMHNPs deliver cost-
effective, holistic, high-quality mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan and
care settings. The PMCNUPMHNP program will prepare graduates to excel in the assessment, diagnostic,
prescriptive, and psychotherapeutic treatment processes of advanced mental health practice, as well as in delivering
disease prevention and health promotion. In addition to the clinical skills graduates will develop in the
PMCNUPMHNP program, graduates will be prepared to lead interprofessional healthcare teams, shape healthcare
policy, and make business decisions in order to more efficiently deliver high-quality, cost-effective care to individuals,
families, and communities across care settings. The PMCNUPMHNP program is a blended offering with the majority
of the coursework delivered online, plus direct patient care clinical practice experiences occurring in the local
community. Graduates of the PMCNUPMHNP program are eligible to sit for the PMHNP national certification
examination. Additionally, the PMCNUPMHNP program will prepare graduates to successfully transition to clinical
practice in delivering mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan and care
settings.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5800 D115 Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced 4 1
Practice Nurse
NURS 6800 D116 Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced 4 1
Practice Nurse
NURS 6810 D117 Advanced Health Assessment for the 4 2
Advanced Practice Nurse
NURS 6436 D343 Foundations of Advanced Psychiatric Mental 3 2
Health Practice
NURS 6437 D344 The Assessment and Diagnostic Process of 3 2
Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner Practice
NURS 6348 D345 Psychopharmacology for Advanced Psychiatric 3 3
Mental Health Practice
NURS 6439 D346 Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of 3 3
Adults and Older Adults Across Care Settings
NURS 6440 D347 Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of 3 3
Children and Adolescents Across Care
Settings
NURS 6480 D348 Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 3 4
Clinical Internship I
NURS 6481 D349 Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 3 4
Clinical Internship II
NURS 6482 D350 Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner 3 4
Clinical Internship III
PMCNUPMHNP 202306 Total CUs: 36
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 120
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Nursing Education (Post-MSN)
The Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Nursing Education (Post-MSN) program is a competency-based program that
prepares students to be academic nurse educators in various educational and practice settings. Students are
prepared to lead collaborative academic-practice partnerships to strengthen nursing practice by developing nurses
who will lead and advance health in diverse populations. As academic nurse educators, graduates demonstrate a
professional presence by helping nursing students acquire the knowledge, skills and competencies to work effectively
in inter-professional teams across a variety of academic and healthcare settings. The WGU Post-Master's Certificate,
Nursing - Nursing Education (Post-MSN)content is based on national standards and evidence-based research related
to effective teaching, learning, curriculum design and development and nursing role development. It provides the
knowledge and skills that enable educators to teach effectively in clinical and lab, online, hybrid, virtual and classroom
learning environments. The content, resources, activities, and assessments in this program are consistent with
recommendations from American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN), The Essentials of Master's Education in
Nursing, and the National League for Nursing (NLN), Scope of Practice for Academic Nurse Educators. This program
builds on the core knowledge developed during the student's prior MSN degree. Areas of focus for this certificate
program include: development of the context-based curriculum, learning objectives and outcomes, and learning
materials that are an essential aspect of an academic educator role. This program will provide students opportunities
to experience the application of nursing and educational theory, practical perspectives regarding learning, the
development and socialization of learners, strategies to facilitate learning, and contemporary design and development
of high-quality learning modules and assessments.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5000 D314 Essentials of Academic Writing 1 1
NURS 6002 C919 Facilitation of Context-Based Student- 2 1
Centered Learning
NURS 6003 C920 Contemporary Curriculum Design and 2 1
Development in Nursing Education
NURS 6004 C921 Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for 3 1
Measuring Student Learning
NURS 6101 C918 Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse 2 2
Environments
NURS 6005 C922 Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st 2 2
Century Nursing Education
NURS 6201 C946 Nursing Education Field Experience 2 2
NURS 6107 C947 Nursing Education Capstone 2 2
PMCNUED 202110 Total CUs: 16
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 121
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management (Post-MSN)
The Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management (Post-MSN) program is a competency-based
program that prepares students to be leaders and managers in diverse settings: hospitals, long term care facilities,
community service agencies, governmental agencies and facilities, and corporations. Students use their
organizational, analytic, strategic planning, financial, human resources, and evaluation skills across healthcare
organizations. The WGU Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management (Post-MSN) program
content is evidence-based, drawing on national standards and research related to creating work environments that
are collaborative, interdisciplinary, and promote effective functioning in complex nursing and healthcare environments.
The certificate program content and processes are consistent with the American Nurses Association (ANA) Standards
for Nurse Administrators and the American Organization for Nursing Leadership (AONL) competencies for nursing
managers and executives, and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) Clinical Nurse Leader (CNL).
The Post-Master's Certificate program is focused on the preparation of highly qualified nurse administrators (nurse
managers and nurse executives). This program builds on the core knowledge developed during the student's prior
MSN degree. Areas of focus for this certificate program include organizational and leadership theories, strategic
planning, regulatory standards, risk management, principles of financial management, and concepts of human
resource management. Graduates examine organizational, financial, and personnel issues and their resolution. The
process for assessment, measurement, evaluation, and use of outcome data for improvement is presented.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 5000 D314 Essentials of Academic Writing 1 1
NURS 6431 D155 Leading with Personal Mastery 2 1
NURS 6432 D156 Business Case Analysis for Healthcare 2 1
Improvement
NURS 6433 D157 Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption 2 1
NURS 6434 D158 Strategically Planning the Execution of a 2 1
Healthcare Improvement Project
NURS 6435 D159 Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating 2 2
Healthcare Improvements
NURS 6503 D160 Nursing Leadership and Management Field 3 2
Experience
NURS 6603 D161 Nursing Leadership and Management 2 2
Capstone
PMCNULM 202110 Total CUs: 16
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 122
School of Technology
School of Technology Tenets:
• We believe education is the single greatest catalyst to change lives permanently. By providing affordable, high-
value competency-based education in IT at scale, we provide opportunities to maximize professional and personal
outcomes for as many learners as possible.
• Information Technology opportunities are ubiquitous across industries and are critical to solving global challenges,
both current and future. We leverage strategic partnerships, portfolio research, and skills mapping to identify,
develop, and deliver innovative learning approaches and access pathways that enable students to succeed in
current as well as future technical and career environments.
• Those with the least access to education have the most to gain for themselves, their families, and the world:
equitable attainment for the underserved and underrepresented is a force multiplier in our impact. Through
ongoing innovation in learning analytics, personalized support, focused efforts around diversity, and differentiated
unbiased curriculum, we meet learners where they are and scaffold them to success no matter their background.
• Our learners flourish when they are skilled in not only technological systems but also innovation, integration,
critical thinking, and problem solving. Our curriculum choices ensure that industry-relevant skills are integrated
with complementary skill sets that scaffold students’ ability to make informed choices in business and across
society.
• We are part of a lifelong learning journey for our students and offer flexible learning at multiple points along that
timeline. While certifications help our students get the next job, our degrees grow their careers and change their
lives. We maintain the relevancy of both to ensure student short-term and long-term success.
• Our people are our college, and our collective success enables student success. By focusing on the wellbeing and
growth of each contributor, we maximize our potential and therefore that of our students by achieving together.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 123
Bachelor of Science, Cloud Computing - Amazon Web Services track
The Bachelor of Science in Cloud Computing - AWS track (BSCCAWS) degree program prepares IT professionals
with hands-on knowledge and practical application of cloud computing infrastructure, platform, and software. Students
will learn of the business advantages of moving to the cloud including functions specific to compute, storage,
database, networking, and security. Students will earn foundational and associate level certifications from major cloud
providers such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure, and vendor agnostic certifications such as
CompTIA, Linux, and ITIL. Students will learn how to manage the security of cloud deployed applications, work with
DevOps principles, and global Identity and Access Management (IAM) functions. The curriculum emphasizes working
in the AWS cloud environment and builds upon a core IT curriculum that includes systems and services, networking
and security, scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, web development, and exposure to other
cloud environments. Students seeking the BS in Cloud Computing - AWS track degree demonstrate additional
competencies in software, engineering, operations, architecture, and development for cloud-based computing
solutions across multiple industries.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 1
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 1
Geography
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 2
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2119 D282 Cloud Foundations 3 2
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 3
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
ITEC 3602 D325 Networks 4 4
ITEC 2112 D329 Network and Security - Applications 4 4
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 4
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 5
ITEC 3100 D522 Python for IT Automation 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
ITEC 3601 D318 Cloud Applications 3 6
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
DBMG 3380 D330 Data Systems Administration 3 6
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITCL 3202 D320 Managing Cloud Security 4 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 124
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 8
ITSW 3170 D411 Scripting and Automation 2 8
ITCL 3204 D338 Cloud Platform Solutions 3 8
ITCL 3201 D319 AWS Cloud Architecture 3 8
ITAS 2141 D334 Introduction to Cryptography 4 8
ITEC 3005 D341 Cloud Deployment and Operations 3 9
ITCL 3203 D321 AWS Developer 3 9
ITEC 2114 D337 Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure 3 9
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 9
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 10
ITCL 4179 D342 Cloud Computing Capstone 4 10
BSCCAWS 202406 Total CUs: 121
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 125
Bachelor of Science, Cloud Computing - Microsoft Azure track
The Bachelor of Science in Cloud Computing - Azure track (BSCCAZR) degree program prepares IT professionals
with hands-on knowledge and practical application of cloud computing infrastructure, platform, and software. Students
will earn foundational and associate level certifications from major cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services
(AWS) and Microsoft Azure, and vendor agnostic certifications such as CompTIA, Linux, and ITIL. Students will learn
how to manage the security of cloud deployed applications, work with DevOps principles, and global Identity and
Access Management (IAM) functions. The curriculum emphasizes working in the Azure cloud environment and builds
upon a core IT curriculum that includes systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming,
data management, business of IT, web development, and exposure to other cloud environments. Students seeking
the BS in Cloud Computing &ndash; Azure track degree demonstrate additional competencies in software,
engineering, operations, and architecture development for cloud-based computing solutions across multiple
industries.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 1
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 1
Geography
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 2
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
ITCL 2100 D303 Azure Fundamentals 3 2
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 3
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
ITEC 3602 D325 Networks 4 4
ITEC 2112 D329 Network and Security - Applications 4 4
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 4
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 5
ITEC 3100 D522 Python for IT Automation 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
ITEC 3601 D318 Cloud Applications 3 6
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
DBMG 3380 D330 Data Systems Administration 3 6
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITCL 3202 D320 Managing Cloud Security 4 7
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 126
ITSW 3170 D411 Scripting and Automation 2 8
ITCL 3204 D338 Cloud Platform Solutions 3 8
ITCL 3101 D304 Azure DevOps Solutions 3 8
ITAS 2141 D334 Introduction to Cryptography 4 8
ITCL 3102 D305 Azure Data Engineer 3 9
ITCL 3103 D306 Azure Developer Associate 3 9
ITEC 2114 D337 Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure 3 9
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 9
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 10
ITCL 4179 D342 Cloud Computing Capstone 4 10
BSCCAZR 202406 Total CUs: 121
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 127
Bachelor of Science, Cloud Computing
The Bachelor of Science in Cloud Computing (BSCC) degree program prepares IT professionals with hands-on
knowledge and practical application of cloud computing infrastructure, platform, and software. Students will learn of
the business advantages of moving to the cloud including functions specific to compute, storage, database,
networking, and security. Students will earn foundational and associate level certifications from major cloud providers
such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure, and vendor agnostic certifications such as CompTIA,
Linux, and ITIL. Students will learn how to manage the security of cloud deployed applications, work with DevOps
principles,and global Identity and Access Management (IAM) functions. The curriculum emphasizes working in multi-
cloud environments and builds upon a core IT curriculum that includes systems and services, networking and security,
scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, and web development. Students seeking the BS in
Cloud Computing degree demonstrate additional competencies in software, engineering, operations, architecture, and
development for cloud-based computing solutions across multiple industries.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 1
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 1
Geography
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 2
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2119 D282 Cloud Foundations 3 2
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 2
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 3
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 3
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 3
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
ITEC 3602 D325 Networks 4 4
ITEC 2112 D329 Network and Security - Applications 4 4
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 4
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 5
ITEC 3100 D522 Python for IT Automation 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
ITEC 3601 D318 Cloud Applications 3 6
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
DBMG 3380 D330 Data Systems Administration 3 6
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITCL 3202 D320 Managing Cloud Security 4 7
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 128
ITSW 3170 D411 Scripting and Automation 2 8
ITCL 2100 D303 Azure Fundamentals 3 8
ITCL 3103 D306 Azure Developer Associate 3 8
ITAS 2141 D334 Introduction to Cryptography 4 8
ITCL 3201 D319 AWS Cloud Architecture 3 9
ITCL 3204 D338 Cloud Platform Solutions 3 9
ITEC 2114 D337 Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure 3 9
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 9
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 10
ITCL 4179 D342 Cloud Computing Capstone 4 10
BSCCMCL 202406 Total CUs: 121
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 129
Bachelor of Science, Computer Science
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science prepares students for a career in the high demand field of Computer
Science. Upon program completion, students will apply their learned knowledge and skills in the designing,
developing and optimizing of systems to meet current and future industry needs. The curriculum includes innovative
courses in programming and logic, architecture and systems, data structures, project management, artificial
intelligence, along with the theory and science of computing.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ICSC 2211 D684 Introduction to Computer Science 4 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 1
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 1
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
MATH 2100 C958 Calculus I 4 2
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 2
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 3
ICSC 2212 D685 Practical Applications of Prompt 2 3
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
MATH 2800 C959 Discrete Mathematics I 4 3
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 4
with Others
ICSC 3120 C952 Computer Architecture 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
ITSW 3172 D286 Java Fundamentals 3 4
MATH 2810 C960 Discrete Mathematics II 4 4
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
ITSW 3173 D287 Java Frameworks 3 5
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 5
ITAS 2110 D430 Fundamentals of Information Security 3 6
ITSW 3175 D288 Back-End Programming 3 6
ITEC 2212 D686 Operating Systems for Computer Scientists 3 6
ITSW 3024 D387 Advanced Java 3 6
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 7
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
ITSW 2226 D284 Software Engineering 4 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 130
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 8
ICSC 3100 C950 Data Structures and Algorithms II 4 8
ITSW 3151 D480 Software Design and Quality Assurance 3 8
ICSC 3111 D429 Introduction to AI for Computer Scientists 2 8
ICSC 3112 D682 Artificial Intelligence Optimization for Computer 3 9
Scientists
ICSC 3113 D683 Advanced AI and ML 3 9
ICSC 3131 D687 Computer Science Project Development with a 3 9
Team
BSCS 202412 Total CUs: 117
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 131
Bachelor of Science, Computer Science (BSCS to MSCS)
Students enrolled in the Accelerated Computer Science Bachelor's and Master's Degree program will first complete
the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science portion of the program, and after completing the necessary bachelors
and bridge course work will receive the Bachelor of Science, Computer Science degree. Students will then progress
to the remaining graduate course work, and upon completion will receive the Master of Science, Computer Science
degree. The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science prepares students for a career in the high demand field of
Computer Science. Upon program completion, students will apply their learned knowledge and skills in the designing,
developing and optimizing of systems to meet current and future industry needs. The curriculum includes innovative
courses in programming and logic, architecture and systems, data structures, artificial intelligence, along with the
theory and science of computing. The Master of Science in Computer Science is a competency-based degree
program that represents a path for successful IT professionals to launch their careers and build them to an executive
level. The graduate will advance his or her knowledge and skills through a practical, real-world program based on
sound principles of Computer Science revolving around three primary themes: computing systems, human-computer
interaction, and artificial intelligence and machine learning: effective communication as essential to management at all
levels, in all areas of human endeavor; and strategic vision that takes individuals and organizations beyond immediate
difficulties and successes to a perception of future challenges and preparations to meet those challenges.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ICSC 2211 D684 Introduction to Computer Science 4 1
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 1
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 1
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 1
MATH 2100 C958 Calculus I 4 2
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 2
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 2
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 2
ICSC 5201 D793 Formal Languages Overview 3 3
ICSC 2212 D685 Practical Applications of Prompt 2 3
ITSW 2130 C867 Scripting and Programming - Applications 4 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
MATH 2800 C959 Discrete Mathematics I 4 4
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 4
with Others
ICSC 3120 C952 Computer Architecture 3 4
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 4
ITSW 3172 D286 Java Fundamentals 3 5
MATH 2810 C960 Discrete Mathematics II 4 5
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
ITSW 3173 D287 Java Frameworks 3 6
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 6
ITAS 2110 D430 Fundamentals of Information Security 3 6
ITSW 3175 D288 Back-End Programming 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 132
ITEC 2212 D686 Operating Systems for Computer Scientists 3 7
ITSW 3024 D387 Advanced Java 3 7
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ICSC 5204 D795 Applied Algorithms and Reasoning 3 7
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 8
ITSW 2226 D284 Software Engineering 4 8
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 8
ICSC 3100 C950 Data Structures and Algorithms II 4 9
ITSW 3151 D480 Software Design and Quality Assurance 3 9
ICSC 3111 D429 Introduction to AI for Computer Scientists 2 9
ICSC 3112 D682 Artificial Intelligence Optimization for Computer 3 9
Scientists
ICSC 5205 D797 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 3 10
Foundations
ICSC 3131 D687 Computer Science Project Development with a 3 10
Team
MSCSUG 202504 Total CUs: 116
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 133
Bachelor of Science, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
To meet an increasing demand for cybersecurity professionals, the Bachelor of Science in Cybersecurity, and
Information Assurance (BSCSIA) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and experience in
vulnerability management, risk management, incident response, and cyber defense to safeguard data. Courses
deliver proven methods for information security in the topics of penetration testing, network security, cloud security,
scripting, intrusion detection, digital forensics, security operations, project management, cryptography, Artificial
Intelligence (AI), data analytics, and Identity and Access Management (IAM) to prevent, detect, and mitigate
cyberattacks. This program features nationally recognized, high demand certifications in the field of cybersecurity.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 1
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 1
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 2
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 2
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 2
ITAS 2110 D430 Fundamentals of Information Security 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 3
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
ITAS 3010 C841 Legal Issues in Information Security 4 4
ITEC 3602 D325 Networks 4 4
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 4
ITAS 3040 C844 Emerging Technologies in Cybersecurity 4 5
ITEC 2112 D329 Network and Security - Applications 4 5
ITAS 2140 D431 Digital Forensics in Cybersecurity 4 5
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 6
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 6
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 6
ITAS 3050 C845 Information Systems Security 4 7
ITAS 2141 D334 Introduction to Cryptography 4 7
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 8
ITSW 3126 D335 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 8
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 8
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 8
with Others
ITAS 3030 C843 Managing Information Security 6 9
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 134
ITAS 3021 D340 Cyber Defense and Countermeasures 4 9
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 9
ITCL 3202 D320 Managing Cloud Security 4 10
ITAS 3080 D332 Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis 4 10
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 10
BSCSIA 202303 Total CUs: 122
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 135
Bachelor of Science, Data Analytics
The B.S. in Data Analytics is designed to equip data analytics professionals with the necessary skills to design data
systems, acquire and wrangle data, analyze and predict outcomes, and operationalize data-derived insights, all
through the use of mathematical and programming approaches. The program combines these skills with change
management, design thinking, systems thinking, and communication skills to empower graduates to effect change
with data-derived insights and analytical products.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 3100 D491 Introduction to Analytics 2 1
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 1
BUS 2250 D388 Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data 3 1
Presentations
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 1
MGMT 4400 C721 Change Management 3 2
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
DTMG 3179 D326 Advanced Data Management 3 3
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 3
ITSW 3126 D335 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 3
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 4
PHIL 1110 D428 Design Thinking for Business 3 4
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 4
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 4
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 5
ITEC 2119 D282 Cloud Foundations 3 5
ITEC 2022 D386 Hardware and Operating Systems Essentials 3 5
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 5
DTAN 3200 D492 Data Analytics - Applications 4 6
MATH 2820 D420 Discrete Math: Logic 1 6
MATH 2830 D421 Discrete Math: Functions and Relations 1 6
ITSW 2135 D493 Scripting and Programming - Applications 3 6
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 6
with Others
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 7
Geography
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 136
DTMG 3351 D494 Data and Information Governance 2 7
DTAN 3205 D495 Big Data Foundations 4 7
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 8
COMM 1721 D246 Influential Communication through Visual 3 8
Design and Storytelling
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 8
DTSC 3211 D496 Introduction to Data Science 4 8
DTMG 3221 D497 Data Wrangling 3 9
DTAN 3211 D498 Data Analysis with R 2 9
DTSC 3221 D499 Machine Learning 3 9
DTAN 3221 D500 Data Visualization 2 9
DTSC 3300 D501 Machine Learning DevOps 2 9
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 10
DTMG 3901 D502 Data Analytics Capstone 4 10
BSDA 202309 Total CUs: 122
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 137
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology
The WGU Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (IT) program provides a solid foundation in computer
information systems and technologies. In addition to the IT content, the degree program includes a broad collegiate-
level education. The program is primarily designed for those seeking a career or to advance their current career as
information technology professionals by developing levels of expertise required for increased responsibility in the
information technology field. The foundation of the Bachelor of Science program consists of six domains of study:
systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, and
web development. At the end of the program, students develop a comprehensive portfolio and complete a capstone
project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 2
with Others
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 3
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 4
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 4
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 4
MATH 1709 C277 Finite Mathematics 4 4
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 5
Geography
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 5
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 6
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 6
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
BUIT 3000 C724 Information Systems Management 3 7
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 7
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 138
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 8
ITEC 2119 D282 Cloud Foundations 3 8
ITEC 2950 C850 Emerging Technologies 2 8
ITEC 3602 D325 Networks 4 9
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 9
ITEC 2112 D329 Network and Security - Applications 4 9
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 10
BSIT 202207 Total CUs: 121
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 139
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology (BSIT to MSITM)
Students enrolled in the Accelerated Information Technology Bachelor's and Master's Degree program will first
complete the Bachelor of Science in Information Technology portion of the program, and after completing the
necessary bachelors and bridge course work will receive the Bachelor of Science, Information Technology degree.
Students will then progress to the remaining graduate course work, and upon completion will receive the Master of
Science, Information Technology Management degree. The Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (IT)
degree program provides a solid foundation in computer information systems and technologies. In addition to the IT
content, the degree program includes a broad collegiate-level education. The program is primarily designed for those
seeking a career or to advance their current career as information technology professionals by developing levels of
expertise required for increased responsibility in the information technology field. The foundation of the Bachelor of
Science program consists of six domains of study: systems and services, networking and security, scripting and
programming, data management, business of IT, and web development. At the end of the program, students develop
a comprehensive portfolio and complete a capstone project. The Master of Science in Information Technology
Management is a competency-based degree program that represents a path for successful IT professionals to launch
their careers and build them to an executive level. The graduate will advance his or her knowledge and skills through
a practical, real-world program based on sound principles of Information Technology revolving around three primary
themes: communication, technical competence and strategic vision: effective communication as essential to
management at all levels, in all areas of human endeavor; and strategic vision that takes individuals and organizations
beyond immediate difficulties and successes to a perception of future challenges and preparations to meet those
challenges.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 1
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
HUMN 1020 D198 Global Arts and Humanities 3 1
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 1
BUS 2301 C483 Principles of Management 4 2
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 2
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 2
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 2
with Others
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 3
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 3
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 3
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 3
BUS 2001 C484 Organizational Behavior and Leadership 3 4
BUIT 2200 C268 Spreadsheets 3 4
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 4
MATH 1709 C277 Finite Mathematics 4 4
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 5
Geography
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 5
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 5
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 5
ITWD 3120 C777 Web Development Applications 6 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 140
ITWD 3110 C773 User Interface Design 4 6
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 6
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 7
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 7
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 7
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 7
ITEC 2119 D282 Cloud Foundations 3 8
ITEC 3602 D325 Networks 4 8
ITEC 2112 D329 Network and Security - Applications 4 8
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 8
ITEC 6500 C948 Technical Communication 3 9
ITIM 5530 C954 Information Technology Management 3 9
INTE 5200 C962 Current and Emerging Technology 3 9
ITEC 5320 C783 Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4903 C769 IT Capstone Written Project 4 10
MSITMUG 202207 Total CUs: 122
Master of Science, Information Technology Management portion
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
INTE 5300 LZT2 Power, Influence and Leadership 3 1
ITIM 6520 C929 IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy 2 1
ITIM 6500 C927 Managing Technology Operations and Innovation 3 1
ITIM 6510 C928 Financial Management for IT Professionals 2 2
ITEC 6400 MBT2 Technological Globalization 3 2
ITEC 6901 C498 MS Information Technology Management Capstone 4 2
Total CUs: 17
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 141
Bachelor of Science, Network Engineering and Security
In response to an increasing demand for network engineering and security professionals, the Bachelor of Science,
Network Engineering and Security (BSNES) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and
experience in network design, network engineering, network troubleshooting, network automation, network security,
and cloud security to manage network infrastructure and secure data through effective IT policies and procedures.
Courses deliver proven methods for network administration and operations to ensure uptime, performance, resources,
and security of networks to meet the needs of the organization. The program builds upon a core IT curriculum:
systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, and
web development. Students seeking the BS, Network Engineering and Security degree demonstrate additional
competencies in this area by taking and passing specific industry certification exams that are vendor agnostic.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 1
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 1
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 2
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 3
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 3
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 3
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 3
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 3
Geography
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
MATH 2820 D420 Discrete Math: Logic 1 4
ITEC 3602 D325 Networks 4 4
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 4
MATH 2830 D421 Discrete Math: Functions and Relations 1 4
ITEC 3101 D412 Network Analytics and Troubleshooting 3 5
ITEC 2112 D329 Network and Security - Applications 4 5
MATH 2840 D422 Discrete Math: Algorithms and Cryptography 1 5
ITAS 2141 D334 Introduction to Cryptography 4 5
ITCL 3202 D320 Managing Cloud Security 4 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
ITEC 3201 D413 Telecomm and Wireless Communications 3 6
ITEC 3601 D318 Cloud Applications 3 6
ITEC 2114 D337 Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure 3 7
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 7
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 142
ITEC 3100 D522 Python for IT Automation 3 7
ITEC 2801 D415 Software Defined Networking 3 8
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 8
ITEC 3501 D417 Network Automation and Deployment 3 8
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 8
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 8
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 9
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4905 D418 BSNES Capstone Project 4 9
BSNES 202406 Total CUs: 111
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 143
Bachelor of Science, Network Engineering and Security Cisco Track
In response to an increasing demand for Cisco network and security professionals, the Bachelor of Science, Network
Engineering and Security - Cisco (BSNES-C) degree program prepares IT professionals to apply knowledge and
experience in network design, network engineering, network troubleshooting, network automation, network security,
and cloud security to manage network infrastructure and secure data through effective IT policies and procedures.
Courses deliver proven methods for network administration and operations to ensure uptime, performance, resources,
and security of networks to meet the needs of the organization. The program builds upon a core IT curriculum:
systems and services, networking and security, scripting and programming, data management, business of IT, and
web development. Students seeking the BS, Network Engineering and Security &ndash; Cisco degree demonstrate
additional competencies in this area by taking and passing industry relevant certifications that include three Cisco
Associates certification exams.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 1
ITEC 2023 D317 IT Applications 4 1
ITEC 2013 D316 IT Foundations 4 1
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 2
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 2
ITEC 3004 D281 Linux Foundations 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
BUS 2140 D100 Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 3
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 3
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 3
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 3
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 3
Geography
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 4
MATH 2820 D420 Discrete Math: Logic 1 4
ITEC 3755 D419 Implementing and Administering Networking 6 4
Solutions
PHIL 1020 D265 Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence 3 4
MATH 2830 D421 Discrete Math: Functions and Relations 1 5
ITEC 3101 D412 Network Analytics and Troubleshooting 3 5
ITEC 3301 D414 Cyber Operations Fundamentals 6 5
MATH 2840 D422 Discrete Math: Algorithms and Cryptography 1 5
ITAS 2141 D334 Introduction to Cryptography 4 5
ITCL 3202 D320 Managing Cloud Security 4 6
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 6
ITEC 3201 D413 Telecomm and Wireless Communications 3 6
ITEC 3601 D318 Cloud Applications 3 6
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 7
ITEC 3100 D522 Python for IT Automation 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 144
ITEC 3401 D416 DevNet Fundamentals 6 7
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 8
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 8
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 8
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 8
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 9
ITEC 4905 D418 BSNES Capstone Project 4 9
BSNES_C 202406 Total CUs: 111
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 145
Bachelor of Science, Software Engineering
The B.S. in Software Engineering program is designed to meet the growing industry need in the software space while
preparing experienced information technology professionals for successful careers as software engineers, designers
and developers.The program focuses on software engineering and it is offered in two tracks that utilize either Java or
C# to achieve similar objectives.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 1
ITSW 3126 D335 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 1
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 2
ITSW 2131 D277 Front-End Web Development 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 3
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 3
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 3
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 4
ITSW 3151 D280 JavaScript Programming 3 4
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 4
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 4
DTMG 3179 D326 Advanced Data Management 3 5
ITSW 3110 D279 User Interface Design 3 5
ITSW 3111 D479 User Experience Design 3 5
ITSW 3172 D286 Java Fundamentals 3 5
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 6
ITSW 3173 D287 Java Frameworks 3 6
ITEC 2119 D282 Cloud Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2022 D386 Hardware and Operating Systems Essentials 3 6
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITSW 3175 D288 Back-End Programming 3 7
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 7
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 8
Geography
ITSW 3024 D387 Advanced Java 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 146
ITEC 2034 D385 Software Security and Testing 3 8
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 8
ITSW 3151 D480 Software Design and Quality Assurance 3 9
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 9
ITSW 2226 D284 Software Engineering 4 9
ITSW 3034 D308 Mobile Application Development (Android) 3 9
ITEC 4906 D424 Software Engineering Capstone 4 10
BSSWE 202303 Total CUs: 119
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 147
Bachelor of Science, Software Engineering
The B.S. in Software Engineering program is designed to meet the growing industry need in the software space while
preparing experienced information technology professionals for successful careers as software engineers, designers
and developers.The program focuses on software engineering and it is offered in two tracks that utilize either Java or
C# to achieve similar objectives.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 1
ITSW 3126 D335 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 1
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 2
ITSW 2131 D277 Front-End Web Development 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 3
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 3
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 3
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 4
ITSW 3151 D280 JavaScript Programming 3 4
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 4
ITEC 2112 D315 Network and Security - Foundations 3 4
DTMG 3179 D326 Advanced Data Management 3 5
ITSW 3110 D279 User Interface Design 3 5
ITSW 3111 D479 User Experience Design 3 5
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 5
ITSW 3215 C968 Software I – C# 6 6
ITEC 2119 D282 Cloud Foundations 3 6
ITEC 2022 D386 Hardware and Operating Systems Essentials 3 6
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 7
ITSW 3225 C969 Software II – Advanced C# 6 7
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 8
Geography
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 8
ITEC 2034 D385 Software Security and Testing 3 8
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 148
ITSW 3151 D480 Software Design and Quality Assurance 3 9
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 9
ITSW 2226 D284 Software Engineering 4 9
ITSW 3315 C971 Mobile Application Development Using C# 3 9
ITEC 4906 D424 Software Engineering Capstone 4 10
BSSWE_C 202303 Total CUs: 119
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 149
Bachelor of Science, Software Engineering (BSSWE to MSSWE)
Students enrolled in the Accelerated Software Engineering Bachelor's and Master's Degree program will first
complete the Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering portion of the program, and after completing the necessary
bachelors and bridge course work, will receive the Bachelor of Science, Software Engineering degree. Students can
then determine which masters specialization they would like to enroll in: Master of Science, Software Engineering,
DevOps Engineering, Master of Science, Software Engineering, AI Engineering, or Master of Science, Software
Engineering, Domain Driven Design. From there, students will then progress to the remaining graduate course work,
and upon completion will receive the Master of Science, Software Engineering Management degree within their
chosen specialization.The Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering (SW) degree program provides a solid
foundation in software engineering systems and technologies. In addition to the SW content, the degree program
includes a broad collegiate-level education. The program is primarily designed for those seeking a career or to
advance their current career as software engineering professionals by developing levels of expertise required for
increased responsibility in the software engineering field. At the end of the program, students develop a
comprehensive portfolio and complete a capstone project.The Master of Science in Software Engineering is a
competency-based degree program representing a path for successful software engineering professionals to launch
their careers and build them to an executive level. The graduate will advance their knowledge and skills through a
practical, real-world program based on sound principles of Software Engineering. This program revolves around the
following primary themes: communication, technical competence, and strategic vision.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 2113 D278 Scripting and Programming - Foundations 3 1
ITSW 3126 D335 Introduction to Programming in Python 3 1
ITBU 2201 D370 IT Leadership Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2120 D276 Web Development Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2110 D197 Version Control 1 2
ITSW 2131 D277 Front-End Web Development 3 2
MATH 1101 C955 Applied Probability and Statistics 3 2
ITEC 2002 D322 Introduction to IT 4 2
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 2
MATH 1200 C957 Applied Algebra 3 3
ICSC 2100 C949 Data Structures and Algorithms I 4 3
PHIL 1030 D372 Introduction to Systems Thinking 3 3
ITEC 2116 D426 Data Management - Foundations 3 3
ITEC 2117 D427 Data Management - Applications 4 4
ITSW 3151 D280 JavaScript Programming 3 4
HUMN 1101 D333 Ethics in Technology 3 4
DTMG 3179 D326 Advanced Data Management 3 4
ITSW 3110 D279 User Interface Design 3 5
ITSW 3111 D479 User Experience Design 3 5
ITSW 3172 D286 Java Fundamentals 3 5
HLTH 1010 C458 Health, Fitness, and Wellness 4 5
ITSW 3173 D287 Java Frameworks 3 6
ITSW 5106 D782 Network Architecture and Cloud Computing 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 150
ITEC 2022 D386 Hardware and Operating Systems Essentials 3 6
ITEC 2109 D324 Business of IT - Project Management 4 6
ITSW 3175 D288 Back-End Programming 3 7
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 7
ITEC 2113 D336 Business of IT - Applications 4 7
ITSW 5101 D778 Advanced Software Engineering 3 7
GEOG 1312 D199 Introduction to Physical and Human 3 8
Geography
ITSW 3024 D387 Advanced Java 3 8
ITEC 2034 D385 Software Security and Testing 3 8
COMM 1115 D339 Technical Communication 3 8
ITSW 5103 D780 Software Architecture and Design 3 9
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 9
ITSW 5104 D781 Software Quality Assurance and Deployment 4 9
ITSW 3034 D308 Mobile Application Development (Android) 3 9
ITEC 4906 D424 Software Engineering Capstone 4 10
MSSWEUG 202504 Total CUs: 119
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 151
Master of Science, Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
The Master of Science, Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning program prepares students to
meet evolving business needs by applying advanced artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data science
methodologies to solve complex, real-world challenges. Students will develop expertise in AI algorithms, deep
learning, and natural language processing (NLP) to create innovative solutions for diverse industries. In addition to
designing scalable systems and implementing secure software development practices, students will focus on
business applications, optimizing AI technologies to drive decision-making and operational efficiency. Graduates will
be equipped with strong technical communication skills and ethical AI development practices, enabling them to lead
interdisciplinary teams and deliver impactful solutions that align with business objectives.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ICSC 5201 D793 Formal Languages Overview 3 1
ICSC 5203 D794 Computer Architecture and Systems 3 1
ICSC 5204 D795 Applied Algorithms and Reasoning 3 1
ICSC 5206 D796 Unix and Linux 3 2
ICSC 5205 D797 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 3 2
Foundations
ITAS 5225 D486 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2 2
ICSC 6206 D801 Machine Learning for Computer Scientists 4 3
ICSC 6204 D802 Deep Learning 3 3
ICSC 6203 D803 Natural Language Processing 3 3
ICSC 6205 D804 Advanced AI for Computer Scientists 4 4
MSCSAIML 202504 Total CUs: 31
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 152
Master of Science, Computer Science, Computing Systems
The Master of Science, Computer Science, Computing Systems program equips students with advanced
computational and technical skills to tackle real-world challenges across a wide range of computing disciplines.
Students will develop expertise in algorithmic problem-solving, scalable system design, and technical communication
for varied audiences. With a focus on AI, machine learning, and mobile computing, students will learn to design
secure and optimized operating systems, IoT applications, and distributed cloud systems. The program emphasizes
secure development, formal coding languages, and innovative solutions, preparing students to thrive in todayâ€™s
dynamic technological landscape.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ICSC 5201 D793 Formal Languages Overview 3 1
ICSC 5203 D794 Computer Architecture and Systems 3 1
ICSC 5204 D795 Applied Algorithms and Reasoning 3 1
ICSC 5206 D796 Unix and Linux 3 2
ICSC 5205 D797 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 3 2
Foundations
ITAS 5225 D486 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2 2
ICSC 6201 D798 Emerging Computing Systems 4 3
ICSC 6202 D799 Mobile and Ubiquitous Design 4 3
ITSW 5106 D782 Network Architecture and Cloud Computing 3 4
ITSW 5103 D780 Software Architecture and Design 3 4
MSCSCS 202504 Total CUs: 31
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 153
Master of Science, Computer Science, Human-Computer Interaction
The Master of Science, Computer Science, Human-Computer Interaction program equips students to develop user-
centric technology solutions by integrating user research, interaction design, and advanced technical foundations.
Students will design scalable systems and architectures using cloud computing, virtualization, and mobile computing
to create innovative, real-world solutions across diverse environments. With a focus on human-computer interaction
and ethical development practices, students will master computational problem-solving, advanced operating systems,
and secure development. Strong emphasis on technical communication ensures graduates are prepared to lead
interdisciplinary teams and deliver efficient, user-focused technology solutions.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ICSC 5201 D793 Formal Languages Overview 3 1
ICSC 5203 D794 Computer Architecture and Systems 3 1
ICSC 5204 D795 Applied Algorithms and Reasoning 3 1
ICSC 5206 D796 Unix and Linux 3 2
ICSC 5205 D797 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning 3 2
Foundations
ITAS 5225 D486 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2 2
ICSC 6203 D800 Human-Computer Interaction 4 3
ICSC 6202 D799 Mobile and Ubiquitous Design 4 3
ITSW 5103 D780 Software Architecture and Design 3 4
LXD 5071 D294 Learning Technology 3 4
MSCSHCI 202504 Total CUs: 31
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 154
Master of Science, Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance prepares security professionals to protect an
organization's operations in cyberspace and safeguard the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. The
comprehensive curriculum covers topics such as secure network design; cyber defense; penetration testing; cloud
security; governance, risk, and compliance (GRC); software design; enterprise architecture; information security
programs; and business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR). The program equips students with competencies in
the latest technologies and best practices in cybersecurity to effectively protect their organization's assets and
manage operations in today's digital landscape. This program features nationally recognized, high-demand
certifications in the field of cybersecurity.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITAS 5100 D481 Security Foundations 2 1
ITAS 5221 D482 Secure Network Design 3 1
ITAS 6231 D487 Secure Software Design 3 1
ITAS 5222 D483 Security Operations 4 2
ITCL 5224 D485 Cloud Security 4 2
ITAS 5223 D484 Penetration Testing 4 3
ITAS 6291 D488 Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering 4 3
ITAS 5225 D486 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2 4
ITAS 6320 D489 Cybersecurity Management 4 4
ITAS 6460 D490 Cybersecurity Graduate Capstone 4 4
MSCSIA 202306 Total CUs: 34
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 155
Master of Science, Data Analytics - Data Science
The MS Data Analytics degree prepares a diverse range of professionals for thriving careers in the dynamic field of
data analytics. By arming graduates with the competencies needed to tackle business challenges through data
mining, predictive analysis, analytics deployment, and compelling data storytelling techniques, the MSDA ensures
they are well-prepared for success. Emphasizing both theory and practical application, the curriculum fosters the
development of skills necessary to drive impactful change within organizations spanning various industries and
sectors. The Data Science concentration enhances mastery in statistical and programming methodologies, delving
into the advanced topics advanced analytics professionals will need such as machine learning, neural networks, and
numerical optimization. The program includes a concentration-specific capstone, providing an opportunity for students
to showcase their skills in a comprehensive manner.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 5215 D596 The Data Analytics Journey 2 1
DTAN 5216 D597 Data Management 3 1
DTAN 5217 D598 Analytics Programming 3 1
DTAN 5218 D599 Data Preparation and Exploration 3 2
DTAN 5219 D600 Statistical Data Mining 3 2
DTAN 5221 D601 Data Storytelling for Varied Audiences 3 2
DTAN 5222 D602 Deployment 3 3
DTAN 6215 D603 Machine Learning 3 3
DTAN 6216 D604 Advanced Analytics 3 3
DTAN 6217 D605 Optimization 3 4
DTAN 6218 D606 Data Science Capstone 3 4
MSDADS 202408 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 156
Master of Science, Data Analytics - Data Engineering
The MS Data Analytics degree prepares a diverse range of professionals for thriving careers in the dynamic field of
data analytics. By arming graduates with the competencies needed to tackle business challenges through data
mining, predictive analysis, analytics deployment, and compelling data storytelling techniques, the MSDA ensures
they are well-prepared for success. Emphasizing both theory and practical application, the curriculum fosters the
development of skills necessary to drive impactful change within organizations spanning various industries and
sectors. The Data Engineering concentration builds upon core techniques in data management and governance to
further bolster analytics initiatives, delving into cloud-native databases, data processing, and approaches to support
scale. The program includes a concentration-specific capstone, providing an opportunity for students to showcase
their skills in a comprehensive manner.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 5215 D596 The Data Analytics Journey 2 1
DTAN 5216 D597 Data Management 3 1
DTAN 5217 D598 Analytics Programming 3 1
DTAN 5218 D599 Data Preparation and Exploration 3 2
DTAN 5219 D600 Statistical Data Mining 3 2
DTAN 5221 D601 Data Storytelling for Varied Audiences 3 2
DTAN 5222 D602 Deployment 3 3
DTAN 6220 D607 Cloud Databases 3 3
DTAN 6221 D608 Data Processing 3 3
DTAN 6222 D609 Data Analytics at Scale 3 4
DTAN 6223 D610 Data Engineering Capstone 3 4
MSDADE 202408 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 157
Master of Science, Data Analytics - Decision Process Engineering
The MS Data Analytics degree prepares a diverse range of professionals for thriving careers in the dynamic field
of data analytics. By arming graduates with the competencies needed to tackle business challenges through data
mining, predictive analysis, analytics deployment, and compelling data storytelling techniques, the MSDA ensures
they are well-prepared for success. Emphasizing both theory and practical application, the curriculum fosters the
development of skills necessary to drive impactful change within organizations spanning various industries and
sectors. The Decision Process Engineering concentration builds upon fundamental knowledge in the data
analytics lifecycle, focusing on implementing successful business change. This concentration offers courses in
project management, process engineering, and decision intelligence. The program includes a concentration-
specific capstone, providing an opportunity for students to showcase their skills in a comprehensive manner.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 5215 D596 The Data Analytics Journey 2 1
DTAN 5216 D597 Data Management 3 1
DTAN 5217 D598 Analytics Programming 3 1
DTAN 5218 D599 Data Preparation and Exploration 3 2
DTAN 5219 D600 Statistical Data Mining 3 2
DTAN 5221 D601 Data Storytelling for Varied Audiences 3 2
DTAN 5222 D602 Deployment 3 3
ITEC 5320 C783 Project Management 4 3
DTAN 6225 D612 Business Process Engineering 3 3
DTAN 6226 D613 Decision Intelligence 3 4
DTAN 6227 D614 Decision Process Engineering Capstone 3 4
MSDADPE 202408 Total CUs: 33
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 158
Master of Science, Information Technology Management
The Master of Science in Information Technology Management is a competency-based degree program that
represents a path for successful IT professionals to launch their careers and build them to an executive level. The
graduate will advance his or her knowledge and skills through a practical, real-world program based on sound
principles of Information Technology revolving around three primary themes: communication, technical competence
and strategic vision: effective communication as essential to management at all levels, in all areas of human
endeavor; and strategic vision that takes individuals and organizations beyond immediate difficulties and successes to
a perception of future challenges and preparations to meet those challenges.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 6500 C948 Technical Communication 3 1
ITIM 5530 C954 Information Technology Management 3 1
INTE 5300 LZT2 Power, Influence and Leadership 3 1
ITIM 6510 C928 Financial Management for IT Professionals 2 2
ITIM 6520 C929 IT Sourcing and Development in a Global 2 2
Economy
ITIM 6500 C927 Managing Technology Operations and 3 2
Innovation
ITEC 6400 MBT2 Technological Globalization 3 2
ITEC 5320 C783 Project Management 4 3
INTE 5200 C962 Current and Emerging Technology 3 3
ITEC 6901 C498 MS, Information Technology Management 4 3
Capstone
MSITM 201808 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 159
Master of Science, Software Engineering - AI Engineering
The Master of Science, Software Engineering - AI Engineering (MSSWEAIE) program involves in-depth training in
the principles and practices essential for developing high-quality software systems. Designed to equip students with
both theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience, the program covers key areas such as software design,
architecture, testing, and project management. Students will learn to apply modern software engineering
methodologies and tools to address complex challenges in building scalable, reliable, and maintainable software
solutions. MSSWEAIE is a concentration that explores the integration of AI functionalities into existing software
systems, covering automation of tasks, optimization of systems for AI performance, and seamless integration of AI
components within broader software infrastructures. Additionally, students will understand the ethical considerations
and regulatory compliance issues crucial for AI deployment, including topics such as data privacy, ethical algorithm
design, and ensuring AI fairness. MSSWEAIE explores project management and leadership within the software
development lifecycle, emphasizing leadership skills essential for driving change and navigating the unique
challenges and iterative processes of AI system development. Graduates will be well-equipped to design, build, and
manage sophisticated software systems in a variety of industries as well as develop strategies for implementing AI at
scale to meet business needs in an ethical manner.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 5100 D777 Real Life Applications of Data Structures 3 1
ITSW 5101 D778 Advanced Software Engineering 3 1
ITSW 5102 D779 Software Product Design and Requirement 3 1
Engineering
ITSW 5103 D780 Software Architecture and Design 3 2
ITSW 5104 D781 Software Quality Assurance and Deployment 4 2
ITAS 5225 D486 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2 2
ITSW 5106 D782 Network Architecture and Cloud Computing 3 3
ITSW 6106 D789 Applied Machine Learning for Business 3 3
Solutions
ITSW 6107 D790 Human Centered AI 3 3
ITSW 6108 D791 Integrating AI with Modern Software 3 4
Applications
MSSWEAIE 202504 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 160
Master of Science, Software Engineering - DevOps Engineering
The Master of Science, Software Engineering - DevOps Engineering (MSSWEDOE) program involves in-depth
training in the principles and practices essential for developing high-quality software systems. Designed to equip
students with both theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience, the program covers key areas such as software
design, architecture, testing, and project management. Students will learn to apply modern software engineering
methodologies and tools to address complex challenges in building scalable, reliable, and maintainable software
solutions. MSSWEDOE is a concentration that contains comprehensive training in DevOps culture and practices,
emphasizing collaboration, automation, and continuous improvement in the development and operations lifecycle.
Students will learn to implement continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) processes, automating the
integration of code changes and deployment to shared repositories. The program also focuses on infrastructure as
code (IaC), enabling the management and provisioning of infrastructure through automation and supporting the
deployment, scaling, and maintenance of application systems with greater predictability and scalability. Additionally,
MSSWEDOE covers implementing monitoring solutions to track and analyze application performance and health,
teaching students to use this data to optimize system performance and reliability. By the end of the program,
graduates will be well-equipped to design, build, and manage sophisticated software systems in a variety of
industries as well as to lead DevOps initiatives, driving efficiency and collaboration across development teams.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 5100 D777 Real Life Applications of Data Structures 3 1
ITSW 5101 D778 Advanced Software Engineering 3 1
ITSW 5102 D779 Software Product Design and Requirement 3 1
Engineering
ITSW 5103 D780 Software Architecture and Design 3 2
ITSW 5104 D781 Software Quality Assurance and Deployment 4 2
ITAS 5225 D486 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2 2
ITSW 5106 D782 Network Architecture and Cloud Computing 3 3
ITSW 6100 D783 DevOps Foundations 3 3
ITSW 6101 D784 Continuous Integration and Continuous 3 3
Delivery
ITSW 6102 D785 DevOps Security 3 4
MSSWEDOE 202504 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 161
Master of Science, Software Engineering - Domain Driven Design
The Master of Science, Software Engineering - Domain Driven Design (MSSWEDDD) program involves in-depth
training in the principles and practices essential for developing high-quality software systems. Designed to equip
students with both theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience, the program covers key areas such as software
design, architecture, testing, and project management. Students will learn to apply modern software engineering
methodologies and tools to address complex challenges in building scalable, reliable, and maintainable software
solutions. MSSWEDDD is a concentration that covers creating detailed domain models that reflect the complexities of
specific business processes and practices. Students will learn to structure software systems that align closely with
business objectives through the strategic patterns of domain-driven design (DDD), such as bounded contexts and
ubiquitous language. This includes covering the skills needed to lead development teams and to integrate DDD
principles effectively throughout the software development lifecycle. MSSWEDDD emphasizes aligning software
design with business strategies, teaching students to develop solutions that precisely meet business objectives and
enhance their value in industries heavily reliant on software. Graduates will be equipped to design, build, and manage
sophisticated software systems in a variety of industries as well as bridge the gap between technical teams and
business stakeholders, ensuring that software systems are robust and business-relevant.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 5100 D777 Real Life Applications of Data Structures 3 1
ITSW 5101 D778 Advanced Software Engineering 3 1
ITSW 5102 D779 Software Product Design and Requirement 3 1
Engineering
ITSW 5103 D780 Software Architecture and Design 3 2
ITSW 5104 D781 Software Quality Assurance and Deployment 4 2
ITAS 5225 D486 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2 2
ITSW 5106 D782 Network Architecture and Cloud Computing 3 3
ITSW 6105 D788 Domain Driven Design 3 3
ITSW 6104 D787 Scalability and Performance Optimization 3 3
ITSW 6103 D786 Microservices Design and Architecture 3 4
MSSWEDDD 202504 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 162
School of Education
Teachers College Tenets:
• WGU’s Teachers College radically improves the way people learn and lead across the K-20+ spectrum—i.e., the
K- 12, higher-education, and workforce-education sectors.
• The surest path toward helping our students become next-generation educators is to ensure they experience high-
quality, next-generation education.
• We know our students and are committed to supporting each one as they work to learn well, finish strong, and
launch effectively into the next phase of their learning or working journey.
• School districts, colleges, universities, and industry employers are our customers too. Developing programming
and services that meet their strategic needs matters.
• We are a beacon of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) impact in both expanding access and improving
attainment.
• We own and champion larger-WGU strategic goals around student outcomes and financial sustainability.
• Our people are our college. How we recruit, hire, develop, evaluate, and culturally integrate our team is the most
tangible evidence of our values and expectations around DEI, learning quality, and student care.
Steps to Become a Licensed Teacher
https://www.wgu.edu/online-teaching-degrees/becoming-licensed-teacher-accredited.html
WGU offers teacher certification programs including bachelor’s and master’s degree programs. Below is the standard
process for earning an initial teaching license through the WGU Teachers College.
1a. Earn a bachelor's degree
The online bachelor's teaching degree programs in the Teachers College at WGU include coursework and assessments,
a preclinical experience that includes observation hours and teaching lessons, and Student Teaching (explained in step
5).
1b. Complete a master’s degree (if you already have a bachelor’s degree)
If you already possess a bachelor’s degree in a non-teaching field, WGU’s Master of Arts in Teaching programs are the
choice for you. These teacher-prep programs qualify you to become licensed in the field of your choice (such as
elementary education, secondary mathematics, science, etc.), training you to become a highly qualified teacher. These
programs include supervised practice teaching (see step 5: Student Teaching) in an actual classroom setting.
2. Pass a background check
WGU requires all candidates for a teacher-certification program to provide the university with verification of a cleared
background check prior to entering the classroom for preclinical experiences and Student Teaching. Previously
completed background checks may not satisfy WGU background check requirements. In some states, more than one
background check may be required. In addition, most states require that applicants for teacher certification complete a
background check for the Department of Education prior to submitting all application paperwork. This is a necessary
precaution designed to prevent those who may pose a danger to the students in the classroom. You must be at least 18
years of age before you may begin the application process or participate in preclinical experiences and Student
Teaching.
3. Pass basic skills, content, and pedagogy exams
Each state has specific testing requirements that must be met or completed in addition to completing a teaching degree
program at WGU. WGU requires students to complete and pass:
• Basic Skills Exam: Pass the Basic Skills Exam required by your state for certification, or a designated Basic Skills
Exam if your state does not require one.
• Content Exam: You must pass the designated Content Exam(s) required by your state in order to graduate from
your program.
• WGU Program Exam: WGU also requires you to pass a specific Praxis exam to graduate from your program (with
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 163
the exception of Elementary programs), often in addition to any certification exam required by your state.
• Pedagogy Exam: Finally, some states require the completion of a Pedagogy Exam, which assesses your
knowledge of teaching methods.
4. Complete preclinical experiences
In preparation for your formal Student Teaching (described in step 5 below), you will complete preclinical experiences
designed to introduce you to the classroom through a series of activities, including observations and lesson planning.
Working under the guidance of a WGU Placement Specialist, you will be asked to make arrangements with a local school
to complete these activities.
5. Complete a term of in-classroom Student Teaching
Student Teaching is a critical component of any teaching degree program. This in-classroom experience is invaluable in
helping to integrate the academic knowledge and teaching skills you’ve developed to this point into a practical application
that will prepare you to tackle the challenges of your own classroom effectively and with confidence.
Student Teaching at WGU covers the competencies required for in-classroom proficiency. Student Teaching is a full-
time, supervised, in-classroom experience of a minimum of 12–20 weeks. During Student Teaching, you will be hosted
by an experienced teacher. You will undergo a series of at least six observations by a Clinical Supervisor and also
receive evaluations from your Mentor Teacher to evaluate your performance based on accepted professional standards.
As you approach your Student Teaching, a WGU Placement Specialist will work with you to set up your placement. The
process of scheduling your placement may take up to six months. You may be required to assist in the process of setting
up your placement. In some cases, you may be required to commute up to two hours (or in rare cases longer than this).
Note that students are not permitted to work during their Student Teaching experience. You must be at least 18 years of
age before you may begin the application process or participate in preclinical experiences or Student Teaching.
Student Teaching may not be waived and prior experience may not be used to satisfy this requirement as you must
demonstrate competency in the classroom in order to complete your WGU degree program.
More information on clinical experiences can be found in the student handbook:
Initial Licensure Programs - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Clinical-Experiences-Handbook/tkb-p/fieldplacement
Advanced Programs - https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/Clinical-Experiences-Handbook/tkb-p/advancedprograms
6. Meet any additional state certification requirements
Some states have additional requirements for certification, such as coursework not included in your WGU program, CPR
certification, or workshops.
More information on your state's requirements - https://www.wgu.edu/online-teaching-degrees/state-licensure.html
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 164
Bachelor of Arts, Elementary Education
The Bachelor of Arts in Elementary Education (BAELED) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students with the competencies needed to apply for licensure as an elementary educator. This program consists of
online courses which take the learner from general education through educational professional core coursework,
continuing through methods of elementary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for students with
mild to moderate exceptionalities. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates
for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching
in face-to-face environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful
completion of degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the
student can receive institutional recommendation for licensure in elementary education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 2
Applications
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 3
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 3
Society
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 2250 D668 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 3 5
EDUC 2251 D669 Early Literacy Methods 3 5
EDUC 2252 D670 Elementary Literacy Methods 3 5
EDUC 2257 D688 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 3 6
EDUC 2258 D689 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 3281 D706 Early Clinical in Elementary Education 3 6
EDUC 2260 D691 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 3 6
EDUC 2261 D692 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 165
EDUC 2262 D693 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 3 7
Interventions
EDUC 2253 D671 Elementary Science Curriculum 3 7
EDUC 2254 D672 Elementary Science and Engineering Methods 3 7
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 8
EDUC 2255 D673 Elementary Social Studies Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 2256 D674 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 8
EDUC 2263 D694 Elementary Health and Physical Education 3 8
Methods
EDUC 2264 D695 Elementary Fine Arts Methods 3 8
EDUC 2259 D690 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 9
EDUC 4734 D708 Advanced Clinical in Elementary Education 3 9
EDUC 4743 D717 Student Teaching I in Elementary Education 8 9
EDUC 4744 D718 Student Teaching II in Elementary Education 8 10
BAELED 202411 Total CUs: 120
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 166
Bachelor of Arts, Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure)
The Bachelor of Arts, Special Education and Elementary Education Dual Licensure (BASPEE), is a competency-
based degree program that provides teacher candidates to teach both Special Education (K-12) and Elementary
Education (K-8).The Special and Elementary Education Dual Licensure program is specifically designed for the
education and training of prospective teachers to work with both elementary students and students with mild/moderate
disabilities in a variety of school settings, including inclusion K-12 classrooms, resource rooms or self-contained
classrooms and serve as an elementary teacher who can teach all basic school subjects in the elementary education
classroom. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general education, through methods
of instruction, assessment, and classroom management continuing special education courses for teaching students
with special education content and methods of instruction, assessment, and progress monitoring, continuing with
specialized courses for special education content and methods of instruction, assessment, and behavioral
interventions. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning
with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic,
collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in elementary and special education settings. Multiple clinical experiences
include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in an elementary
classroom and special education settings in both elementary and secondary levels. The different placements support
the academic needs of students seeking multiple licenses in elementary education and across all P-12 grades with
mild-to-moderate disabilities. With the successful completion of degree requirements for graduation, including
required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional recommendation for
licensure in special education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 2
Applications
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 3
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 3
Society
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
EDUC 2265 D753 Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied 4 4
Behavior Analysis
EDUC 3284 D754 Special Education Law, Policies and 3 4
Procedures
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 5
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 5
EDUC 3285 D755 Assessment for Special Education 3 5
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 167
EDUC 3286 D756 Individualized Education Plan (IEP) 3 6
Collaboration and Communication with Parents
and School Staff
EDUC 2250 D668 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 3 6
EDUC 2251 D669 Early Literacy Methods 3 6
EDUC 2252 D670 Elementary Literacy Methods 3 6
EDUC 2257 D688 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 3 7
EDUC 2258 D689 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3283 D750 Early Clinical in Elementary and Special 3 7
Education
EDUC 2260 D691 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 2261 D692 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 3 8
EDUC 2262 D693 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 3 8
Interventions
EDUC 4777 D757 Special Education Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 4778 D758 Considerations for Instructional Planning for 3 9
Learners
EDUC 4779 D759 Elementary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 4780 D760 Secondary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 2253 D671 Elementary Science Curriculum 3 9
EDUC 2254 D672 Elementary Science and Engineering Methods 3 10
EDUC 2255 D673 Elementary Social Studies Curriculum 3 10
EDUC 2256 D674 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 10
EDUC 2263 D694 Elementary Health and Physical Education 3 10
Methods
EDUC 2264 D695 Elementary Fine Arts Methods 3 11
EDUC 2259 D690 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 11
EDUC 4759 D751 Advanced Clinical in Elementary and Special 3 11
Education
EDUC 4756 D744 Student Teaching I in Elementary and Special 8 11
Education
EDUC 4755 D745 Student Teaching II in Elementary and Special 8 12
Education
BASPEE 202412 Total CUs: 146
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 168
Bachelor of Arts, Special Education, Mild to Moderate
The Bachelor of Arts, Special Education, Mild-to-Moderate (BASPMM), is a competency-based degree program that
prepares teacher candidates to apply for a license in Special Education (K-12). The Special Education, Mild to
Moderate Exceptionalities program is specifically designed for the preparation of prospective teachers to work with
students with mild to moderate disabilities in a variety of educational settings, including inclusion K-12 classrooms and
resource classrooms. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general education through
educational professional core coursework, continuing with specialized courses for special education content and
methods of instruction, assessment, and progress monitoring. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills
through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations and simulations of classroom
instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in P-12 special education
settings. Multiple clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate with supervised
student teaching in two authentic classroom placements, one in an elementary special education setting and another
in a secondary special education setting. Both placements support the academic needs of students seeking a license
across all P-12 grades with mild-to-moderate disabilities. With the successful completion of degree requirements for
graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional
recommendation for licensure in special education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 2
Applications
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 3
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 3
Society
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
EDUC 2265 D753 Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied 4 4
Behavior Analysis
EDUC 3284 D754 Special Education Law, Policies and 3 4
Procedures
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 5
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 5
EDUC 3285 D755 Assessment for Special Education 3 5
EDUC 3286 D756 Individualized Education Plan (IEP) 3 6
Collaboration and Communication with Parents
and School Staff
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 169
EDUC 2250 D668 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 3 6
EDUC 2251 D669 Early Literacy Methods 3 6
EDUC 2252 D670 Elementary Literacy Methods 3 6
EDUC 2257 D688 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 3 7
EDUC 2258 D689 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3280 D705 Early Clinical in Special Education 3 7
EDUC 2260 D691 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 2261 D692 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 3 8
EDUC 2262 D693 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 3 8
Interventions
EDUC 4777 D757 Special Education Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 4778 D758 Considerations for Instructional Planning for 3 9
Learners
EDUC 4779 D759 Elementary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 4780 D760 Secondary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 4280 D723 Advanced Clinical in Special Education 3 9
EDUC 4745 D719 Student Teaching I in Special Education 8 10
EDUC 4746 D720 Student Teaching II in Special Education 8 10
BASPMM 202412 Total CUs: 125
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 170
Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Bachelor of Science, Mathematics Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students with the competencies needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator. This program consists of
online courses which take the learner from general education to educational professional core coursework through
Mathematics content, continuing through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive
practices for all students within the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare
candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in secondary settings. Clinical experiences
include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom.
With the successful completion of degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major
area of teaching, the student can receive institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
MATH 1040 D667 Precalculus 4 3
MATH 2110 D889 Trigonometry 3 4
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 4
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 5
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 5
MATH 2120 D890 Calculus I 3 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 6
EDUC 3289 D898 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 6
MATH 3170 D891 Calculus II 3 6
EDUC 3282 D707 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 3 6
MATH 3110 D888 Probability and Statistics 3 7
MATH 3150 D896 Differential Equations 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 171
EDUC 3288 D895 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics 3 7
Teaching
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
MATH 3130 D893 Linear Algebra 3 8
MATH 3120 D892 Multivariable Calculus 3 8
EDUC 3291 D900 Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics 3 8
MATH 3160 D897 Advanced Probability and Statistics 3 8
EDUC 3290 D899 Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 9
MATH 3140 D894 Advanced Calculus 3 9
EDUC 3292 D901 Secondary Mathematics Curriculum 3 9
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 9
EDUC 4735 D709 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 3 10
EDUC 4747 D721 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 8 10
EDUC 4748 D722 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 8 10
BSMES 202504 Total CUs: 129
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 172
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) is a competency-based degree program
that prepares students with the competencies needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator. This program
consists of online courses which take the learner from general education to educational professional core coursework
through Biological Science content, continuing through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including
inclusive practices for all students within the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a
series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to
prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in secondary settings. Clinical
experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in a real
classroom. With the successful completion of degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in
the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 3110 D888 Probability and Statistics 3 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 5
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
EDUC 3282 D707 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 173
BIO 3010 D877 General Biology II 3 6
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 6
BIO 3070 D887 Molecular Biology 3 7
BIO 3020 D878 General Ecology 3 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
BIO 3000 D876 Cell Biology 3 7
BIO 3030 D879 Genetics 3 8
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 8
BIO 3040 D880 Evolutionary Biology 3 8
BIO 3050 D881 Advanced Zoology and Botany with Lab 4 8
BIO 3060 D882 Secondary Biology Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 9
EDUC 4735 D709 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 3 9
EDUC 4747 D721 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 8 9
EDUC 4748 D722 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 8 10
BSSESB 202504 Total CUs: 124
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 174
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator. This program
consists of online courses which take the learner from general education to educational professional core coursework
through Chemistry content, continuing through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, continuing through
methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the classroom.
Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-
based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical
teaching experiences in secondary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and
culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of degree
requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive
institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1040 D667 Precalculus 4 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 6
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 175
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
EDUC 3282 D707 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 3 6
CHEM 3000 D866 General Chemistry II with Lab 4 6
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
CHEM 3020 D868 Analytical Chemistry with Lab 4 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
CHEM 3040 D870 Physical Chemistry I 3 7
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 8
CHEM 3010 D867 Organic Chemistry 3 8
CHEM 3030 D869 Biochemistry I 3 8
EDUC 3080 D871 Secondary Chemistry Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4735 D709 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 3 9
EDUC 4747 D721 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 8 9
EDUC 4748 D722 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 8 9
BSSESC 202504 Total CUs: 124
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 176
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator. This program
consists of online courses which take the learner from general education to educational professional core coursework
through Earth Science content, continuing through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, continuing
through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the
classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning
with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic,
collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in secondary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face
environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of
degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can
receive institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary Earth Science education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 3110 D888 Probability and Statistics 3 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 5
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 177
EDUC 3282 D707 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 3 6
EDUC 3306 D859 General Geology 3 6
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 3301 D853 Meteorology 3 7
BIO 3020 D878 General Ecology 3 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
EDUC 3302 D854 Environmental Science 3 7
EDUC 3300 D852 Astronomy 3 8
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 8
EDUC 3303 D855 Natural Hazards 3 8
EDUC 3304 D856 Environmental Management with Lab 4 8
EDUC 3305 D857 Secondary Earth Science Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 9
EDUC 4735 D709 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 3 9
EDUC 4747 D721 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 8 9
EDUC 4748 D722 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 8 10
BSSESE 202504 Total CUs: 124
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 178
Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Physics)
The Bachelor of Science, Science Education (Secondary Physics) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator. This program
consists of online courses which take the learner from general education to educational professional core coursework
through Physics content, continuing through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, continuing through
methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the classroom.
Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-
based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical
teaching experiences in secondary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and
culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of degree
requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive
institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary Physics education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1040 D667 Precalculus 4 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 6
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 179
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
EDUC 3282 D707 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 3 6
MATH 2120 D890 Calculus I 3 6
PHYS 3000 D860 General Physics II with Lab 4 7
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
PHYS 3010 D861 Electricity and Magnetism 3 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 8
PHYS 3020 D862 Astrophysics with Lab 4 8
PHYS 3030 D863 Waves, Acoustics, and Sound 3 8
EDUC 3225 D864 Secondary Physics Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
EDUC 4735 D709 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 3 9
EDUC 4747 D721 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 8 9
EDUC 4748 D722 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 8 9
BSSESP 202504 Total CUs: 124
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 180
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Elementary Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Elementary Education (BAESELED) includes content knowledge related
to elementary teaching. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general education,
through methods of instruction, assessment, and classroom management to elementary education courses for
interacting with elementary-level students. It does not include supervised clinical experiences in a real classroom and
does not meet the requirements for initial teacher licensure. This program is for individuals who, for various reasons,
want academic knowledge that relates to teaching, but who cannot or do not want to participate in clinical experiences
to be eligible to teach as a result of completing the program. This is a non-licensure program and will not, in any state,
lead to an institutional recommendation for licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 2
Applications
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 3
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 3
Society
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 2250 D668 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 3 5
EDUC 2251 D669 Early Literacy Methods 3 5
EDUC 2252 D670 Elementary Literacy Methods 3 5
EDUC 2257 D688 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 3 6
EDUC 2258 D689 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 2260 D691 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 3 6
EDUC 2261 D692 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 2262 D693 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 3 7
Interventions
EDUC 2253 D671 Elementary Science Curriculum 3 7
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 181
EDUC 2254 D672 Elementary Science and Engineering Methods 3 7
SCIE 1001 C683 Natural Science Lab 2 7
EDUC 2255 D673 Elementary Social Studies Curriculum 3 7
EDUC 2256 D674 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 8
EDUC 2263 D694 Elementary Health and Physical Education 3 8
Methods
EDUC 2264 D695 Elementary Fine Arts Methods 3 8
EDUC 2259 D690 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BAESELED 202411 Total CUs: 98
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 182
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Special and Elementary Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Special and Elementary Education (BAESSPEE), is a competency-
based degree program that includes content knowledge related to special education (K-12) and elementary (K-8)
teaching. The Special Education, Mild to Moderate and Elementary program is specifically designed for individuals
interested in interacting with students with mild to moderate disabilities. This program consists of online courses which
take the learner from general education, through methods of instruction, assessment, and classroom management to
special education courses for interacting with students with mild to moderate exceptionalities. This program does not
include a supervised teaching practicum in a real classroom and therefore does not meet the requirements for initial
teacher licensure. This program is for individuals who, for various reasons, want the academic knowledge that relates
to teaching, but who cannot or do not want to participate in a supervised classroom practicum and do not expect to be
eligible to teach as a result of completing the program. This is a non-licensure program and will not, in any state, lead
to an institutional recommendation for licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 2
Applications
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 3
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 3
Society
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
EDUC 2265 D753 Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied 4 4
Behavior Analysis
EDUC 3284 D754 Special Education Law, Policies and 3 4
Procedures
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 5
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 5
EDUC 3285 D755 Assessment for Special Education 3 5
EDUC 3286 D756 Individualized Education Plan (IEP) 3 6
Collaboration and Communication with Parents
and School Staff
EDUC 2250 D668 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 3 6
EDUC 2251 D669 Early Literacy Methods 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 183
EDUC 2252 D670 Elementary Literacy Methods 3 6
EDUC 2257 D688 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 3 7
EDUC 2258 D689 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 2260 D691 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 3 7
EDUC 2261 D692 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 3 8
EDUC 2262 D693 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 3 8
Interventions
EDUC 4777 D757 Special Education Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 4778 D758 Considerations for Instructional Planning for 3 8
Learners
EDUC 4779 D759 Elementary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 4780 D760 Secondary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 2253 D671 Elementary Science Curriculum 3 9
EDUC 2254 D672 Elementary Science and Engineering Methods 3 9
EDUC 2255 D673 Elementary Social Studies Curriculum 3 10
EDUC 2256 D674 Elementary Social Studies Methods 3 10
EDUC 2263 D694 Elementary Health and Physical Education 3 10
Methods
EDUC 2264 D695 Elementary Fine Arts Methods 3 10
EDUC 2259 D690 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 3 11
BAESSPEE 202412 Total CUs: 124
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 184
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities Special Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities Special Education (BAESSPMM), is a
competency-based degree program that includes content knowledge related to special education (K-12) teaching The
Special Education, Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities program is specifically designed for individuals interested in
interacting with students with mild to moderate disabilities. This program consists of online courses which take the
learner from general education, through methods of instruction, assessment, and classroom management to special
education courses for interacting with students with mild to moderate exceptionalities. This program does not include
a supervised teaching practicum in a real classroom and therefore does not meet the requirements for initial teacher
licensure. This program is for individuals who, for various reasons, want the academic knowledge that relates to
teaching, but who cannot or do not want to participate in a supervised classroom practicum and do not expect to be
eligible to teach as a result of completing the program. This is a non-licensure program and will not, in any state, lead
to an institutional recommendation for licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 2
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 2
Applications
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 3
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 3
Society
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIO 1010 C190 Introduction to Biology 3 4
EDUC 2265 D753 Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied 4 4
Behavior Analysis
EDUC 3284 D754 Special Education Law, Policies and 3 4
Procedures
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 5
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 5
EDUC 3285 D755 Assessment for Special Education 3 5
EDUC 3286 D756 Individualized Education Plan (IEP) 3 6
Collaboration and Communication with Parents
and School Staff
EDUC 2250 D668 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 3 6
EDUC 2251 D669 Early Literacy Methods 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 185
EDUC 2252 D670 Elementary Literacy Methods 3 6
EDUC 2257 D688 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 3 7
EDUC 2258 D689 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
EDUC 2260 D691 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 3 7
EDUC 2261 D692 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 3 8
EDUC 2262 D693 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 3 8
Interventions
EDUC 4777 D757 Special Education Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 4778 D758 Considerations for Instructional Planning for 3 8
Learners
EDUC 4779 D759 Elementary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 4780 D760 Secondary Literacy and Mathematics 3 9
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
BAESSPMM 202412 Total CUs: 103
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 186
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Secondary Mathematics Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Mathematics Education (Secondary) includes content knowledge related
to secondary Mathematics teaching. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general
education, through methods of instruction, Mathematics content, assessment, and classroom management to
secondary education courses for interacting with secondary-level students. It does not include supervised clinical
experiences in a real classroom and does not meet the requirements for initial teacher licensure. This program is for
individuals who, for various reasons, want academic knowledge that relates to teaching, but who cannot or do not
want to participate in clinical experiences to be eligible to teach as a result of completing the program. This is a non-
licensure program and will not, in any state, lead to an institutional recommendation for licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
SCIE 1020 C165 Integrated Physical Sciences 3 3
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
MATH 1040 D667 Precalculus 4 3
MATH 2110 D889 Trigonometry 3 4
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 4
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 5
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 5
MATH 2120 D890 Calculus I 3 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 6
EDUC 3289 D898 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 6
MATH 3170 D891 Calculus II 3 6
MATH 3110 D888 Probability and Statistics 3 6
MATH 3150 D896 Differential Equations 3 7
EDUC 3288 D895 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics 3 7
Teaching
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 187
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
MATH 3130 D893 Linear Algebra 3 7
MATH 3120 D892 Multivariable Calculus 3 8
EDUC 3291 D900 Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics 3 8
MATH 3160 D897 Advanced Probability and Statistics 3 8
EDUC 3290 D899 Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 3 8
MATH 3140 D894 Advanced Calculus 3 9
EDUC 3292 D901 Secondary Mathematics Curriculum 3 9
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 9
BAESMES 202504 Total CUs: 107
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 188
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Secondary Biological Science Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) includes content
knowledge related to secondary Biology teaching. This program consists of online courses which take the learner
from general education, through methods of instruction, Biology content, assessment, and classroom management to
secondary education courses for interacting with secondary-level students. It does not include supervised clinical
experiences in a real classroom and does not meet the requirements for initial teacher licensure. This program is for
individuals who, for various reasons, want academic knowledge that relates to teaching, but who cannot or do not
want to participate in clinical experiences to be eligible to teach as a result of completing the program. This is a non-
licensure program and will not, in any state, lead to an institutional recommendation for licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 3110 D888 Probability and Statistics 3 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 5
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
BIO 3010 D877 General Biology II 3 6
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 189
BIO 3070 D887 Molecular Biology 3 6
BIO 3020 D878 General Ecology 3 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
BIO 3000 D876 Cell Biology 3 7
BIO 3030 D879 Genetics 3 7
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 8
BIO 3040 D880 Evolutionary Biology 3 8
BIO 3050 D881 Advanced Zoology and Botany with Lab 4 8
BIO 3060 D882 Secondary Biology Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BAESSESB 202504 Total CUs: 102
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 190
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Secondary Chemistry Science Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) includes content knowledge
related to secondary Chemistry teaching. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general
education, through methods of instruction, Chemistry content, assessment, and classroom management to secondary
education courses for interacting with secondary-level students. It does not include supervised clinical experiences in
a real classroom and does not meet the requirements for initial teacher licensure. This program is for individuals who,
for various reasons, want academic knowledge that relates to teaching, but who cannot or do not want to participate in
clinical experiences to be eligible to teach as a result of completing the program. This is a non-licensure program and
will not, in any state, lead to an institutional recommendation for licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1802 D772 Statistical Data Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1040 D667 Precalculus 4 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 6
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
CHEM 3000 D866 General Chemistry II with Lab 4 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 191
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 6
CHEM 3020 D868 Analytical Chemistry with Lab 4 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
CHEM 3040 D870 Physical Chemistry I 3 7
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 7
CHEM 3010 D867 Organic Chemistry 3 7
CHEM 3030 D869 Biochemistry I 3 8
EDUC 3080 D871 Secondary Chemistry Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BAESSESC 202504 Total CUs: 102
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 192
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Secondary Earth Science Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) includes content
knowledge related to secondary Earth Science teaching. This program consists of online courses which take the
learner from general education through methods of instruction, Earth Science content, assessment, and classroom
management, to secondary education courses for interacting with secondary-level students. It does not include
supervised clinical experiences in a real classroom and does not meet the requirements for initial teacher licensure.
This program is for individuals who, for various reasons, want academic knowledge that relates to teaching but who
cannot or do not want to participate in clinical experiences to be eligible to teach as a result of completing the
program. This is a non-licensure program and will not, in any state, lead to an institutional recommendation for
licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 3110 D888 Probability and Statistics 3 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 5
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
EDUC 3306 D859 General Geology 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 193
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 6
EDUC 3301 D853 Meteorology 3 6
BIO 3020 D878 General Ecology 3 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
EDUC 3302 D854 Environmental Science 3 7
EDUC 3300 D852 Astronomy 3 7
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 8
EDUC 3303 D855 Natural Hazards 3 8
EDUC 3304 D856 Environmental Management with Lab 4 8
EDUC 3305 D857 Secondary Earth Science Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BAESSESE 202504 Total CUs: 102
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 194
Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Secondary Physics Science Education
The Bachelor of Arts, Educational Studies in Science Education (Secondary Physics) includes content knowledge
related to secondary Physics teaching. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from general
education, through methods of instruction, Physics content, assessment, and classroom management to secondary
education courses for interacting with secondary-level students. It does not include supervised clinical experiences in
a real classroom and does not meet the requirements for initial teacher licensure. This program is for individuals who,
for various reasons, want academic knowledge that relates to teaching, but who cannot or do not want to participate in
clinical experiences to be eligible to teach as a result of completing the program. This is a non-licensure program and
will not, in any state, lead to an institutional recommendation for licensure.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 2225 D663 The Professional Educator 3 1
ENGL 1711 D269 Composition: Writing with a Strategy 3 1
COMM 3015 D268 Introduction to Communication: Connecting 3 1
with Others
EDUC 2226 D664 Learners and Learning Science 3 1
ENGL 1712 D270 Composition: Successful Self-Expression 3 2
ESCI 1010 D847 General Earth Science I 3 2
ESCI 1011 D848 General Earth Science I Lab 1 2
EDUC 2224 D662 Personalized Learning for Inclusive 3 2
Classrooms
MATH 1801 D771 Quantitative Literacy 3 2
EDUC 2223 D661 Creating Positive Learning Environments 3 3
PHIL 1032 D459 Introduction to Systems Thinking and 3 3
Applications
BIOL 1010 D849 General Biology I 3 3
BIOL 1011 D850 General Biology I Lab 1 3
EDUC 2220 D658 Planning Instructional Strategies for 3 3
Meaningful Learning
HUMN 1110 D773 Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and 3 4
Society
EDUC 2221 D659 Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning 3 4
MATH 1015 C278 College Algebra 4 4
EDUC 2222 D660 Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy 3 4
CHEM 1010 D843 General Chemistry I 3 5
CHEM 1011 D844 General Chemistry I Lab 1 5
POLS 1030 C963 American Politics and the US Constitution 3 5
MATH 1040 D667 Precalculus 4 5
EDUC 3265 D807 General Secondary Methods 3 5
EDUC 3267 D874 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 3 6
PHYS 1011 D845 General Physics I 3 6
PHYS 1012 D846 General Physics I Lab 1 6
MATH 2120 D890 Calculus I 3 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 195
PHYS 3000 D860 General Physics II with Lab 4 6
EDUC 3287 D769 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 3 7
PHYS 3010 D861 Electricity and Magnetism 3 7
EDUC 3268 D875 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 3 7
EDUC 3266 D873 Laboratory Safety 1 7
PHYS 3020 D862 Astrophysics with Lab 4 7
PHYS 3030 D863 Waves, Acoustics, and Sound 3 8
EDUC 3225 D864 Secondary Physics Curriculum 3 8
EDUC 3264 D805 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 3 8
BAESSESP 202504 Total CUs: 102
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 196
Master of Arts in Teaching, Elementary Education
The Master of Arts in Teaching Elementary Education (MATELED) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as an elementary
educator. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional core
coursework, continuing through methods of elementary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for
students with mild to moderate exceptionalities. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of
sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare
candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences
include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom.
With the successful completion of degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major
area of teaching, the student can receive institutional recommendation for licensure in elementary education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5082 D677 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 5081 D676 Early Literacy Methods 2 3
EDUC 5080 D675 Elementary Literacy Methods 2 3
EDUC 5087 D696 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 2 3
EDUC 5088 D697 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 5122 D724 Early Clinical in Elementary Education 2 4
EDUC 5090 D699 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 2 4
EDUC 5091 D700 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 5092 D701 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 2 5
Interventions
EDUC 5083 D678 Elementary Science Curriculum 2 5
EDUC 5084 D679 Elementary Science and Engineering Methods 2 5
EDUC 5085 D680 Elementary Social Studies Curriculum 2 5
EDUC 5086 D681 Elementary Social Studies Methods 2 6
EDUC 5093 D702 Elementary Health and Physical Education 2 6
Methods
EDUC 5094 D703 Elementary Fine Arts Methods 2 6
EDUC 5089 D698 Elementary Disciplinary Literacy 2 6
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 197
EDUC 6321 D727 Advanced Clinical in Elementary Education 2 7
EDUC 6331 D737 Student Teaching I in Elementary Education 4 7
EDUC 6332 D738 Student Teaching II in Elementary Education 4 7
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 8
MATELED 202411 Total CUs: 59
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 198
Master of Arts in Teaching, English Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, English Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator. This
program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional core coursework to English
content, through methods of secondary instruction and assessment continuing through methods of secondary
instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the classroom. Candidates develop
and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations
and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching
experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate
with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of degree requirements for
graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional
recommendation for licensure in secondary English education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5327 D808 General Secondary Methods 2 3
EDUC 6070 D841 Secondary English Language Arts Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 6067 D838 Teaching Adolescent Literature in Secondary 2 3
Schools
EDUC 5124 D726 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 2 3
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6068 D839 Teaching Writing in Secondary Schools 2 4
EDUC 6069 D840 Teaching English Language Arts in Secondary 2 4
Schools
EDUC 5275 D806 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 6323 D729 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 2 5
EDUC 6335 D741 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6336 D742 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 6
MATEES 202504 Total CUs: 43
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 199
Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator.
This program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional core coursework to
Mathematics content, through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all
students within the classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential
experiences beginning with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates
for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching
in face-to-face environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful
completion of degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the
student can receive institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary Mathematics education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5327 D808 General Secondary Methods 2 3
EDUC 5192 D902 Secondary Mathematics Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 6075 D904 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 6074 D903 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics 2 3
Teaching
EDUC 5124 D726 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 2 4
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6077 D906 Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics 2 4
EDUC 6076 D905 Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 4
EDUC 5275 D806 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 5
EDUC 6323 D729 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 2 5
EDUC 6335 D741 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6336 D742 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 4 6
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 6
MATMES 202504 Total CUs: 45
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 200
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Biology)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Biology) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator.
This program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional core coursework to
Biology content, through methods of secondary instruction and assessment continuing through methods of secondary
instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the classroom. Candidates develop
and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations
and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching
experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate
with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of degree requirements for
graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional
recommendation for licensure in secondary Biology education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5327 D808 General Secondary Methods 2 3
BIO 6060 D883 Secondary Biology Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 6072 D885 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 2 3
EDUC 5124 D726 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 2 3
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6073 D886 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 2 4
EDUC 6071 D884 Laboratory Safety 1 4
EDUC 5275 D806 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 6323 D729 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 2 4
EDUC 6335 D741 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6336 D742 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 6
MATSESB 202504 Total CUs: 42
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 201
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) is a competency-based degree program
that prepares students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as a secondary
educator. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional core
coursework to Chemistry content, through methods of secondary instruction and assessment continuing through
methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the classroom.
Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-
based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical
teaching experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and
culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of degree
requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive
institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary Chemistry education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5327 D808 General Secondary Methods 2 3
EDUC 6080 D872 Secondary Chemistry Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 6072 D885 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 2 3
EDUC 5124 D726 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 2 3
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6073 D886 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 2 4
EDUC 6071 D884 Laboratory Safety 1 4
EDUC 5275 D806 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 6323 D729 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 2 4
EDUC 6335 D741 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6336 D742 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 6
MATSESC 202504 Total CUs: 42
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 202
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) is a competency-based degree
program that prepares students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as a
secondary educator. This program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional
core coursework to Earth Science content, through methods of secondary instruction and assessment continuing
through methods of secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the
classroom. Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning
with video-based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic,
collaborative, clinical teaching experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-
face environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful
completion of degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the
student can receive institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary Earth Science education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5327 D808 General Secondary Methods 2 3
EDUC 5330 D858 Secondary Earth Science Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 6072 D885 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 2 3
EDUC 5124 D726 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 2 3
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6073 D886 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 2 4
EDUC 6071 D884 Laboratory Safety 1 4
EDUC 5275 D806 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 6323 D729 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 2 4
EDUC 6335 D741 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6336 D742 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 6
MATSESE 202504 Total CUs: 42
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 203
Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Physics)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Science Education (Secondary Physics) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator.
This program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional core coursework to
Physics content, through methods of secondary instruction and assessment continuing through methods of secondary
instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the classroom. Candidates develop
and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based observations
and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical teaching
experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and culminate
with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of degree requirements for
graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive institutional
recommendation for licensure in secondary Physics education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5327 D808 General Secondary Methods 2 3
EDUC 5225 D865 Secondary Physics Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 6072 D885 Three Dimensional Science and Engineering 2 3
EDUC 5124 D726 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 2 3
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6073 D886 Secondary Science Teaching Methods 2 4
EDUC 6071 D884 Laboratory Safety 1 4
EDUC 5275 D806 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 6323 D729 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 2 4
EDUC 6335 D741 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6336 D742 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 6
MATSESP 202504 Total CUs: 42
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 204
Master of Arts in Teaching, Social Studies Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Social Studies Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares students with the competencies at the graduate level needed to apply for licensure as a secondary educator.
This program consists of online courses which take the learner from educational professional core coursework to
Social Studies content, through methods of secondary instruction and assessment continuing through methods of
secondary instruction and assessment, including inclusive practices for all students within the classroom. Candidates
develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-based
observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical
teaching experiences in elementary settings. Clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face environments and
culminate with supervised student teaching in a real classroom. With the successful completion of degree
requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of teaching, the student can receive
institutional recommendation for licensure in secondary Social Studies education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 2
Assessment
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 2
Pedagogy
EDUC 5327 D808 General Secondary Methods 2 3
EDUC 6066 D837 Secondary Social Studies Curriculum 2 3
EDUC 6064 D835 Social Studies Methods I 2 3
EDUC 5124 D726 Early Clinical in Secondary Education 2 3
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 6065 D836 Social Studies Methods II 2 4
EDUC 5275 D806 Secondary Disciplinary Literacy 2 4
EDUC 6323 D729 Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education 2 4
EDUC 6335 D741 Student Teaching I in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6336 D742 Student Teaching II in Secondary Education 4 5
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 6
MATSSES 202504 Total CUs: 41
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 205
Master of Arts in Teaching, Special Education
The Master of Arts in Teaching, Special Education (MATSPED) is a competency-based program that enables teacher
candidates to earn a Master of Arts degree with a concentration in Special Education, Mild to Moderate disabilities
which leads to an initial licensure in Special Education (K-12) teaching certificate. The program will be completed
online except for preclinical experiences, classroom clinical components, and student teaching. This program will
involve an intensive, fast-paced education in fundamental issues, methodology, knowledge, and skills for special
education teachers. The Master of Arts in Special Education, Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities program is specifically
designed for the preparation of prospective teachers to work with students with mild to moderate disabilities in a
variety of educational settings, including inclusion K-12 classrooms and resource classrooms. This program consists
of online courses which take the learner educational professional core coursework and continues with specialized
courses for special education content and methods of instruction, assessment, and behavioral interventions.
Candidates develop and refine their teaching skills through a series of sequential experiences beginning with video-
based observations and simulations of classroom instruction to prepare candidates for authentic, collaborative, clinical
teaching experiences in P-12 special education settings. Multiple clinical experiences include teaching in face-to-face
environments and culminate with supervised student teaching in two authentic classroom placements, one in an
elementary special education setting and another in a secondary special education setting. Both placements support
the academic needs of students seeking a license across all P-12 grades with mild-to-moderate disabilities. With the
successful completion of degree requirements for graduation, including required assessments in the major area of
teaching, the student can receive institutional recommendation for licensure in special education.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5267 D752 The Education Professional 2 1
EDUC 5266 D665 Learner Development and the Science of 2 1
Learning
EDUC 5075 D635 Practices for Inclusive Classrooms 2 1
EDUC 5076 D636 Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning 2 1
Environments
HUMN 5000 D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging 2 2
Trends and Society
EDUC 5322 D761 Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied 3 2
Behavior Analysis
EDUC 5323 D762 Special Education Law, Policies and 2 2
Procedures
EDUC 5077 D637 Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for 2 2
Meaningful Learning
EDUC 5079 D639 Technology for Instruction and Online 2 3
Pedagogy
EDUC 5078 D638 Monitoring Student Learning Through 2 3
Assessment
EDUC 5324 D763 Assessment for Special Education 2 3
EDUC 5325 D764 Individualized Education Plan (IEP) 2 3
Collaboration and Communication with Parents
and School Staff
EDUC 5250 D770 Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions 2 4
EDUC 5123 D725 Early Clinical in Special Education 2 4
EDUC 5082 D677 Elementary Literacy Curriculum 2 4
EDUC 5081 D676 Early Literacy Methods 2 4
EDUC 5080 D675 Elementary Literacy Methods 2 5
EDUC 5087 D696 Foundations of Literacy Through Literature 2 5
EDUC 5088 D697 Literacy Assessment and Interventions 2 5
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 206
EDUC 5090 D699 Elementary Mathematics Curriculum 2 5
EDUC 5091 D700 Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions 2 6
EDUC 5092 D701 Elementary Mathematics Methods and 2 6
Interventions
EDUC 6060 D765 Special Education Curriculum 2 6
EDUC 6061 D766 Considerations for Instructional Planning for 2 6
Learners
EDUC 6062 D767 Elementary Literacy and Mathematics 2 7
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 6063 D768 Secondary Literacy and Mathematics 2 7
Strategies and Assistive Technologies
EDUC 6322 D728 Advanced Clinical in Special Education 2 7
EDUC 6333 D739 Student Teaching I in Special Education 4 7
EDUC 6334 D740 Student Teaching II in Special Education 4 8
EDUC 6337 D743 Education Portfolio 1 8
MATSPED 202412 Total CUs: 64
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 207
Master of Science, Curriculum and Instruction
The Master of Science in Curriculum and Instruction is a competency-based degree program designed for K-12
teachers who are interested in improving their teaching practice and leading innovation in teaching and learning. The
program is built in alignment with the National Board Professional Teaching Standards and the National Education
Association's Teacher Leadership Competencies. Intended to be practical and application-based, the program
incorporates six pillars of curriculum and instruction: reflective practice, social-emotional learning, evidence-based
practices, technology, leadership, and cultural competency. The competencies of this program focus on in-demand
skills, preparing candidates for careers as instructional coaches, curriculum specialists, and distinguished teacher
leaders.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5069 D630 Designing Curriculum and Instruction I 3 1
EDUC 5066 D186 Learning as a Science 3 1
EDUC 5068 D629 The Reflective Practitioner 3 1
EDUC 6302 D187 Differentiated Instruction 3 2
EDUC 5064 D184 Standards-Based Assessment 3 2
EDUC 5070 D631 Designing Curriculum and Instruction II 3 2
EDUC 6303 D188 The Collaborative Leader 3 3
EDUC 5061 D179 Data-Informed Practices 3 3
EDUC 6300 D180 Educational Research 3 3
EDUC 6301 D181 MSCIN Capstone 5 4
MSCIN 202404 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 208
Master of Science, Educational Leadership
The Master of Science in Educational Leadership is a competency-based degree program that prepares qualified K-
12 educators to become state-licensed school principals. The foundation of the program's philosophy is to create
innovative instructional leaders for today's schools. The program is aligned to the NELP, SPA, and PSEL standards.
The candidate learns contemporary theories while engaging in practices related to leading in 21st century schools,
applying new learning at local practicum sites. Graduates of this program enter the field having demonstrated
competencies in leadership practices and ethics, school law, exceptional child services, leading in inclusive schools
with diverse populations, instructional leadership, human resource leadership, school financial management, systems
and operations management, strategic planning, data literacy, and educational inquiry. The candidate is guided
through the program by qualified program mentors, course instructors, and school leaders. The cumulative program
activity consists of a capstone action research project that is conducted in the K-12 school setting.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5288 D016 Leadership Foundations and Ethics 3 1
EDUC 5289 D017 School Law 3 1
EDUC 5290 D018 Leading Inclusive Schools 3 1
EDUC 5291 D019 Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices 3 2
EDUC 5071 D632 Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional 3 2
Learning
EDUC 5072 D633 Leadership of Curriculum Design and 3 2
Instruction
EDUC 5294 D022 People and Talent in Educational Leadership 3 3
EDUC 5298 D036 Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus 3 3
on Professional Practices
EDUC 5295 D023 School Financial Leadership 3 3
EDUC 5296 D034 Systems Management and School Operations 3 4
EDUC 5299 D037 Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus 3 4
on Instruction and Operations
EDUC 5297 D035 Educational Inquiry 3 4
EDUC 5300 D038 Educational Leadership Capstone 3 5
MSEDL 202404 Total CUs: 39
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 209
Master of Education, Education Technology and Instructional Design
The Master of Education, Education Technology and Instructional Design is a competency-based degree program
designed for professionals looking to create experiences that enable learners to achieve desired outcomes in a
human-centered, goal-oriented way. Intended to be practical and application-based, the program incorporates seven
cross-cutting themes: Design Thinking; diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I); social and emotional learning (SEL);
learning analytics; learning technology; Universal Design for Learning (UDL); and accessibility. The program offers
two specialization options, which allow candidates to learn best practices for designing learning experiences for
students in K-12 education or adult learners in higher education, corporate, government, or healthcare sectors.
Candidates may also choose to complete both specializations. The competencies in this program measure in-demand
skills, preparing candidates for careers as instructional designers and technologists, learning experience designers,
workforce development specialists, e-learning designers and developers, learning and development leads, and other
related roles.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
LXD 5071 D294 Learning Technology 3 1
LXD 5070 D293 Assessment and Learning Analytics 3 1
LXD 5068 D291 Learning Experience Design Foundations I 3 1
LXD 5069 D292 Learning Experience Design Foundations II 3 2
LXD 5072 D295 Designing and Facilitating E-Learning 3 2
Experiences for K–12 Students
LXD 5073 D296 Quality and Impact of K–12 E-Learning 3 2
Solutions
LXD 6050 D297 Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults 3 3
LXD 5051 D298 Quality and Impact of Adult E-Learning 3 3
Solutions
LXD 6052 D299 Learning Experience Design Lab 3 3
LXD 6053 D300 Identifying Learner Needs and a Research 3 4
Problem
LXD 6054 D301 Developing an E-Learning Solution and 3 4
Research Methodology
LXD 6055 D302 Implementing and Evaluating E-Learning 5 4
Solutions
MEDETID 202312 Total CUs: 38
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 210
Master of Education, Education Technology and Instructional Design
The Master of Education, Education Technology and Instructional Design is a competency-based degree program
designed for professionals looking to create experiences that enable learners to achieve desired outcomes in a
human-centered, goal-oriented way. Intended to be practical and application-based, the program incorporates seven
cross-cutting themes: Design Thinking; diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I); social and emotional learning (SEL);
learning analytics; learning technology; Universal Design for Learning (UDL); and accessibility. The program offers
two specialization options, which allow candidates to learn best practices for designing learning experiences for
students in K-12 education or adult learners in higher education, corporate, government, or healthcare sectors.
Candidates may also choose to complete both specializations. The competencies in this program measure in-demand
skills, preparing candidates for careers as instructional designers and technologists, learning experience designers,
workforce development specialists, e-learning designers and developers, learning and development leads, and other
related roles.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
LXD 5071 D294 Learning Technology 3 1
LXD 5070 D293 Assessment and Learning Analytics 3 1
LXD 5068 D291 Learning Experience Design Foundations I 3 1
LXD 5069 D292 Learning Experience Design Foundations II 3 2
LXD 6050 D297 Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults 3 2
LXD 5051 D298 Quality and Impact of Adult E-Learning 3 2
Solutions
LXD 6052 D299 Learning Experience Design Lab 3 3
LXD 6053 D300 Identifying Learner Needs and a Research 3 3
Problem
LXD 6054 D301 Developing an E-Learning Solution and 3 3
Research Methodology
LXD 6055 D302 Implementing and Evaluating E-Learning 5 4
Solutions
MEDETIDA 202312 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 211
Master of Education, Education Technology and Instructional Design
The Master of Education, Education Technology and Instructional Design is a competency-based degree program
designed for professionals looking to create experiences that enable learners to achieve desired outcomes in a
human-centered, goal-oriented way. Intended to be practical and application-based, the program incorporates seven
cross-cutting themes: Design Thinking; diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I); social and emotional learning (SEL);
learning analytics; learning technology; Universal Design for Learning (UDL); and accessibility. The program offers
two specialization options, which allow candidates to learn best practices for designing learning experiences for
students in K-12 education or adult learners in higher education, corporate, government, or healthcare sectors.
Candidates may also choose to complete both specializations. The competencies in this program measure in-demand
skills, preparing candidates for careers as instructional designers and technologists, learning experience designers,
workforce development specialists, e-learning designers and developers, learning and development leads, and other
related roles.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
LXD 5071 D294 Learning Technology 3 1
LXD 5070 D293 Assessment and Learning Analytics 3 1
LXD 5068 D291 Learning Experience Design Foundations I 3 1
LXD 5069 D292 Learning Experience Design Foundations II 3 2
LXD 5072 D295 Designing and Facilitating E-Learning 3 2
Experiences for K–12 Students
LXD 5073 D296 Quality and Impact of K–12 E-Learning 3 2
Solutions
LXD 6052 D299 Learning Experience Design Lab 3 3
LXD 6053 D300 Identifying Learner Needs and a Research 3 3
Problem
LXD 6054 D301 Developing an E-Learning Solution and 3 3
Research Methodology
LXD 6055 D302 Implementing and Evaluating E-Learning 5 4
Solutions
MEDETIDK12 202312 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 212
Master of Arts, English Language Learning
The Master of Arts in English Language Learning (PreK-12) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings and to develop
significant skills in ELL curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes ELL Content and Methodology, Research Fundamentals, and Instructional Design. All students complete a
capstone project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and 3 1
Grammar
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 2
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 3
EDUC 6754 C360 Teacher Work Sample in English Language 1 4
Learning
MAELLP12 201501 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 213
Master of Arts, Mathematics Education (K-6)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (K-6) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers both to teach mathematics in grades K - 6 and to develop significant skills in mathematics
curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online, and includes Mathematics
Content and Research Fundamentals. All students complete a Capstone Project.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5210 AOA2 Number Sense and Functions 4 1
MATH 5220 AUA2 Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and 4 1
Equations/Inequalities
MATH 5230 AVA2 Geometry and Statistics 4 2
EDUC 6836 MFT2 Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense 2 2
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 2
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 5113 C226 Research Design and Analysis 2 3
EDUC 5114 C227 Research Proposals 2 3
EDUC 6029 C635 MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone 6 4
MAMEK6 201504 Total CUs: 30
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 214
Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in middle grades and to develop significant skills
in mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes Mathematics Content, Mathematics Education and Research Fundamentals. All students complete a
culminating Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 5015 C912 College Algebra 3 1
MATH 5710 QTT2 Finite Mathematics 2 1
MATH 6321 C647 Trigonometry and Precalculus 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5030 C992 College Geometry 2 2
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 2
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 2
MATH 6711 C613 Middle School Mathematics: Content 1 2
Knowledge
MATH 5410 QJT2 Calculus I 2 2
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 3
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 3
EDUC 5111 C224 Research Foundations 2 3
EDUC 5112 C225 Research Questions and Literature Review 2 3
EDUC 6753 C887 MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher 6 4
Performance Assessment
MAMEMG 201810 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 215
Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Secondary)
The Master of Arts in Mathematics Education (Secondary) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers both to be licensed to teach mathematics in middle grades and to develop significant skills
in mathematics curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes Middle School Mathematics Content and Mathematics Education. All students complete a culminating
Teacher Work Sample.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 6321 C647 Trigonometry and Precalculus 2 1
MATH 5030 C992 College Geometry 2 1
MATH 5406 C363 Calculus I 2 1
EDUC 6320 OPT2 Mathematics Learning and Teaching 2 1
MATH 5420 CQC2 Calculus II 2 2
MATH 5510 TOC2 Probability and Statistics I 2 2
MATH 5520 TQC2 Probability and Statistics II 2 2
EDUC 5101 C880 Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching 2 2
EDUC 5102 C882 Geometry for Secondary Mathematics 2 3
Teaching
EDUC 5103 C884 Statistics and Probability for Secondary 2 3
Mathematics Teaching
EDUC 6310 OOT2 Mathematics History and Technology 2 3
MATH 6331 C612 Mathematics: Content Knowledge 1 3
MATH 5100 C878 Mathematical Modeling and Applications 2 3
MATH 6311 C657 Calculus III 2 4
MATH 6310 RKT2 Linear Algebra 2 4
MATH 6320 QDT2 Abstract Algebra 2 4
MATH 5104 C886 Advanced Calculus 2 4
EDUC 6752 C874 MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher 6 5
Performance Assessment
MAMES 201810 Total CUs: 39
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 216
Master of Arts Science Education (Middle Grades)
The Master of Arts Science Education (Middle Grades) is a competency-based degree program that prepares already
licensed teachers for an endorsement in middle levelgeneral science and provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
General Science Content, Biology Content, Geosciences Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
BIO 5111 C907 Introduction to Biology 2 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
BIO 5105 C653 Heredity and Genetics 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
PHYS 5100 RNT2 General Physics 3 2
GEOS 5104 C895 Astronomy 2 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 3
GEOS 5513 C926 Earth: Inside and Out 3 3
SCIE 6405 C616 Middle School Science: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5043 C966 Teaching in the Middle School 2 3
EDUC 5048 C975 Science Methods—Middle Grades General 3 4
Science
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
MASEMG 201806 Total CUs: 34
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 217
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Biological Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondary biology and provides the opportunity to develop
skills in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and
includes General Science Content, Biology Content, and Science Education courses. All students complete a
culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
BIO 5111 C907 Introduction to Biology 2 1
BIO 5120 C870 Human Anatomy and Physiology 3 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
BIO 5106 C889 Molecular and Cellular Biology 3 2
BIO 5105 C653 Heredity and Genetics 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
BIO 5101 C655 Zoology 2 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 3
BIO 5247 C737 Evolution 3 3
BIO 6405 C614 Biology: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5044 C976 Science Methods—Secondary Biology 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
MASESB 201806 Total CUs: 33
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 218
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
The Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Chemistry) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers for an endorsement insecondary chemistry and provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Chemistry Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
CHEM 5409 C672 General Chemistry I with Lab 3 1
CHEM 5410 C673 General Chemistry II with Lab 3 1
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 2
CHEM 5310 BVT2 Physical Chemistry 2 2
CHEM 5300 BWT2 Inorganic Chemistry 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
CHEM 5250 AIT2 Organic Chemistry 2 3
SCIE 5501 C625 Biochemistry 2 3
EDUC 5512 C267 Climate Change 3 3
CHEM 6405 C617 Chemistry: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5045 C977 Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry 3 4
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
MASESC 201806 Total CUs: 34
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 219
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Earth Science) is a competency-based degree program that
prepares already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondaryearth and space science and provides the
opportunity to develop skills in science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree
program is online and includes Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Earth Sciences Content, and Science
Education courses. All students complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 1
PHYS 5100 RNT2 General Physics 3 1
GEOS 5101 C650 Geology I: Physical 3 1
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 2
GEOS 5103 C893 Geology II: Earth Systems 3 2
GEOS 5102 C891 Ecology and Environmental Science 2 2
GEOS 5104 C895 Astronomy 2 2
EDUC 5511 C266 The Ocean Systems 3 3
GEOS 6405 C618 Earth Science: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5046 C978 Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance 6 3
Assessment
MASESE 201806 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 220
Master of Arts Science Education (Secondary Physics)
The Master of Arts in Science Education (Secondary Physics) is a competency-based degree program that prepares
already licensed teachers for an endorsement in secondary physicsand provides the opportunity to develop skills in
science curriculum development, design, and evaluation. All work in this degree program is online and includes
Mathematics Content, General Science Content, Physics Content, and Science Education courses. All students
complete a culminating Teacher Performance Assessment.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
SCIE 5408 C670 Concepts in Science 1 1
SCIE 5020 C908 Integrated Physical Sciences 2 1
MATH 5350 RXT2 Precalculus and Calculus 2 1
PHYS 5101 C659 Conceptual Physics 3 1
PHYS 5150 BYT2 Physics: Mechanics 2 2
CHEM 5107 C833 Chemistry with Lab 3 2
PHYS 5310 BZT2 Physics: Waves and Optics 2 2
PHYS 5320 DPT2 Physics: Electricity and Magnetism 2 2
EDUC 5409 C389 Science, Technology, and Society 2 3
PHYS 5248 C739 Space, Time and Motion 3 3
PHYS 6405 C615 Physics: Content Knowledge 1 3
EDUC 5052 C979 Science Methods—Secondary Physics 3 3
EDUC 6264 C871 MA, Science Education Teacher Performance 6 4
Assessment
MASESP 201806 Total CUs: 32
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 221
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning
The English Language Learning (ELL) Endorsement Preparation Program is a competency-based program that
prepares already licensed teachers to be licensed to teach in English Language Learning (ELL) settings. All work in
this degree program is online and includes ELL content and methodology.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
EDUC 5260 CUA1 Culture 3 1
EDUC 5261 LPA1 Language Production, Theory and Acquisition 4 1
EDUC 5262 SLO1 Theories of Second Language Acquisition and 3 1
Grammar
EDUC 5264 ASA1 Assessment Theory and Practice 3 2
EDUC 5263 NNA1 Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction 4 2
EDUC 5265 NMA1 Professional Role of the ELL Teacher 2 2
EDUC 6260 ELO1 Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL 3 3
EDUC 6261 FEA1 Field Experience for ELL 3 3
ENDELL 201112 Total CUs: 25
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 222
Program Outcomes
School of Business
B.S. Accounting
• The graduate explains the processes and controls for the revenue, expenditure, and general ledger transaction
cycles used in business information systems.
• The graduate interprets the statement of cash flows in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP).
• The graduate applies the full disclosure principle in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP).
• The graduate completes an audit engagement by performing end-of-audit procedures.
• The graduate reports the results of an audit engagement to the appropriate stakeholders.
B.S. Human Resource Management
• The graduate recommends strategies to prevent discrimination, limit employer risk, and manage compliance with
employment laws and workplace policies.
• The graduate explains how strategic compensation practices support an organization’s objectives.
• The graduate describes the development and impact of talent management programs.
• The graduate analyzes HRIS needs analysis, system design and acquisition, return on investment (ROI), and
change management considerations in the final implementation of HRIS into their organization.
• The graduate discusses specific groups and categories of diversity in organizations.
B.S. Information Technology Management
• The graduate explains how IT enables business operations.
• The graduate explains how different types of project-management methods are used.
• The graduate describes effective strategies for systems development and the use of various decision-support
tools.
• The graduate analyzes the role of management in information systems and the necessity for security and
contingency planning.
• The graduate determines appropriate network security operations to protect an organization’s assets.
• The graduate interprets the concepts of analytical processing within the context of business intelligence.
B.S. Business Management
• The graduate analyzes the culture within an organization to determine how to work effectively within that
organization.
• The graduate applies effective communication techniques and principles to business environments.
• The graduate explains how the leadership of cultures fosters diversity, inclusion, ethics, and problem-solving.
• The graduate compares the effectiveness of business strategies in the global business environment.
• The graduate explains the various approaches to implementing change and the roles that leaders and other
stakeholders fulfill.
• The graduate explains key activities for executing, monitoring and controlling, and closing projects.
B.S. Marketing
• The graduate describes the role of consumer behavior in meeting consumer needs to achieve organizational
goals.
• The graduate explains how search engine optimization and digital advertising support an organization's mission
and business goals.
• The graduate applies the components of distribution and promotion to align with content marketing goals.
• The graduate describes the process of managing and motivating a sales force to support an organization’s
business goals.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 223
• The graduate interprets how brand equity is measured to support an organization’s business strategy.
B.S. Communications
• The graduate will be able to craft, implement, and evaluate strategic communication plans tailored to various
business needs and audiences.
• The graduate will develop the ability to work effectively in teams, incorporating diverse perspectives and
leveraging inclusive collaboration strategies.
• The graduate will be able to apply ethical decision-making frameworks, particularly in contexts involving
technology, data privacy, and AI.
• The graduate will be trained to lead and manage change within organizations by applying leadership theories,
strategic thinking, and innovative problem-solving techniques.
• The graduate will be able to apply technical skills in data analysis, visual design, and the use of AI in
communication.
B.S. Finance
• The graduate explains the structures, goals, and regulatory environment of corporations and business
organizations.
• The graduate evaluates an enterprise’s sources and uses of long-term capital.
• The graduate analyzes the economic impact of debt and equity on an enterprise and its shareholders.
• The graduate explains how capital appreciation and corporate investment policies affect shareholders and
enterprise value.
• The graduate explains the interrelationship between emerging technologies and financial innovation.
B.S. Healthcare Administration
• The graduate describes ethical theories, and ethical and legal principles, standards, and laws as applied in a
healthcare setting.
• The graduate analyzes the requirements and practices for maintaining the security and privacy of healthcare
information.
• The graduate analyzes revenue sources, the revenue cycle, financial accounting, and reporting methods in
healthcare.
• The graduate examines clinical care performance and management in the healthcare environment.
• The graduate analyzes business plans, strategic plans and communications strategies that align to mission and
vision of a healthcare organization.
B.S. Supply Chain and Operations Management
• The graduate explains how different types of project-management methods are used.
• The graduate describes how financial and operational practices influence global business.
• The graduate describes key elements of distribution, logistics, and transportation management.
• The graduate explains the role of the Sales and Operations Planning (S&OP) process in Operations and Supply
Chain Management.
• The graduate applies quality management principles and strategies for continuous improvement in an
organization.
• The graduate evaluates solutions to operational problems based on relevant qualitative and quantitative data.
• The graduate synthesizes business analytics, operations, and supply chain management skills to solve business
problems.
B.S. User Experience Design
• The graduate will master the ability to apply empathy-driven, user-centered design thinking to create solutions that
address user needs and business problems.
• The graduate will gain hands-on experience in creating wireframes, low-fidelity prototypes, and high-fidelity
prototypes using industry-standard tools.
• The graduate will be equipped to lead design projects that prioritize inclusivity, accessibility, and ethical
responsibility.
• The graduate will be adept at collaborating with diverse teams, incorporating feedback, and leveraging multiple
perspectives to solve complex design challenges.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 224
• The graduate will build a professional portfolio showcasing their design projects and skills, refine their personal
brand, and be able to effectively narrate their educational and professional accomplishments, positioning
themselves strategically for careers in user experience design.
Master of Business Administration
• The graduate demonstrates best practices to overcome biases that inhibit organizations and teams from
communicating effectively.
• The graduate identifies influences on ethical leadership and analyzes a code of ethics.
• The graduate demonstrates the management of working capital to achieve the appropriate value for the firm.
• The graduate analyzes data from business intelligence and knowledge management systems to make appropriate
decisions.
• The graduate applies operations and inventory management requirements and concepts to achieve operating
objectives.
MBA Information Technology Management
• The graduate applies management and leadership theories for long-term global-business success.
• The graduate evaluates potential project management tools for alignment with specified project activities.
• The graduate develops strategic technology plans that include vision, standards, and direction of technology in line
with organizational strategy.
• The graduate identifies influences on ethical leadership and analyzes a code of ethics.
• The graduate demonstrates the management of working capital to achieve the appropriate value for the firm.
• The graduate analyzes data from business intelligence and knowledge management systems to make appropriate
decisions.
MBA Healthcare Administration
• The graduate applies operations and inventory management requirements and concepts to achieve operating
objectives.
• The graduate develops risk management programs that result in improved quality patient care.
• The graduate identifies and helps a healthcare organization comply with applicable healthcare statutes and
regulations.
• The graduate identifies influences on ethical leadership and analyzes a code of ethics.
• The graduate analyzes how work is accomplished and applies quality metrics and tools to increase efficiency,
effectiveness, and quality.
• The graduate analyzes data from business intelligence and knowledge management systems to make appropriate
decisions.
• The graduate manages costs and productivity to improve a healthcare organization’s sustainability.
M.S. Management and Leadership
• The graduate demonstrates knowledge of key concepts in leading organizational culture to achieve individual and
organizational goals.
• The graduate applies appropriate leadership development and innovation techniques to improve motivation,
development, and innovation of others.
• The graduate analyzes team performance and proposes strategies to improve team effectiveness.
• The graduate recommends new methodologies to enhance organizational efficiency and effectiveness.
• The graduate analyzes the relationship between management practices, culture, and organizational structures
within the context of innovation and change.
• The graduate analyzes the concepts of ethics, corporate social responsibility, and environmental sustainability and
assesses the impact these policies have on strategic decision-making.
M.S. Marketing (Digital Marketing Specialization)
• The graduate applies strategic marketing tools and methodologies to inform decision-making.
• The graduate constructs engaging stories for a target audience that influences consumer behaviors and builds
consumer relationships.
• The graduate develops social media marketing strategies to achieve organizational goals.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 225
• The graduate explains the digital marketing specializations and how they are used within digital marketing
strategy.
• The graduate determines email marketing best practices for target audiences.
• The graduate analyzes how digital marketing tools are used to reach and retain customers to e-commerce stores.
M.S. Marketing (Marketing Analytics Specialization)
• The graduate designs the market research process to achieve specific organizational objectives.
• The graduate explains the digital marketing specializations and how they are used within digital marketing
strategy.
• The graduate analyzes how digital marketing tools are used to reach and retain customers to e-commerce stores.
• The graduate analyzes data from paid, earned, and owned media using marketing technology (MarTech) stacks to
deliver actionable insights for marketing strategies.
• The graduate determines how to optimize a web page including content, visible page elements, and metadata in
order to rank well and obtain backlinks.
M.S. Accounting
• The graduate reports on an audit of the revenue cycle during an audit of a company's financial statements.
• The graduate demonstrates the management of working capital to achieve the appropriate value for the firm.
• The graduate applies generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as they relate to business combinations
and parent/subsidiary relationships.
• The graduate explains the government and nonprofit accounting environment, in accordance with the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB).
• The graduate applies knowledge of tax laws for planning and compliance purposes.
M.S. Human Resource Management
• The graduate analyzes strategies to maintain positive employee relations.
• The graduate defines a strategy to establish and maintain a flow of qualified talent to an organization.
• The graduate analyzes quantitative and qualitative data within human resource metrics.
• The graduate creates a competitive total rewards strategy for employees.
• The graduate evaluates methods of creating strategic inclusive workplace culture initiatives to drive lasting change
within an organization.
Certificate: Accounting Fundamentals
• The graduate will be able to utilize spreadsheets to control revenues, expenditure, and general ledger
transactions.
• The graduate interprets the statement of cash flows in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP).
• The graduate applies the full disclosure principle in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP).
Certificate: Digital Marketing and E-Commerce
• The graduate designs the market research process to achieve specific organizational objectives.
• The graduate determines how to optimize a web page including content, visible page elements, and metadata in
order to rank well and obtain backlinks.
Certificate: Business Leadership
• The graduate can analyze leadership theories, methods, and tools in given situations and select the appropriate
behavior of the leader.
• The graduate identifies leadership opportunities to enhance organizational performance.
• The graduate describes how interpersonal skills are applied to effectively collaborate, communicate, and lead
within a team and across an organization.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 226
Certificate: Supply Chain
• The graduate will be able to manage operations systems and processes including transportation, warehousing,
and distribution.
• The graduate will be able to build ethical and sustainable operating models.
• The graduate will employ best practices for relationship management, identify interdependence effects on
consumers, and mitigate risk.
• The graduate will be able to employ strategic planning to improve efficiency and continuous improvement while
mitigating supply chain disruptions.
Certificate: Management Skills for Supervisors
• The graduate demonstrates the ability to build and lead high-performing, inclusive teams by effectively assessing
individual strengths, fostering trust, and providing actionable feedback to drive growth and productivity.
• The graduate utilizes effective communication and emotional intelligence skills to resolve conflicts, manage team
dynamics, and foster open and empathetic communication within diverse work environments.
• The graduate applies structured decision-making techniques and operational strategies to manage resources,
adapt to shifting priorities, and resolve complex challenges in fast-paced environments.
Leavitt School of Health
B.S. Nursing Prelicensure
• The graduate provides holistic and compassionate person-centered care that respects individual and community
diversity while considering determinants of health.
• The graduate demonstrates leadership by identifying and prioritizing goals to achieve optimal outcomes for
person-centered care and population health.
• The graduate provides a safe, fiscally responsive quality care environment for individuals, families, communities,
and multidisciplinary teams using established and emerging principles of safety science.
• The graduate integrates best evidence into nursing practice incorporating individual values as well as clinical
expertise from industry analyses to persons and populations at the local, regional, national, and global levels.
• The graduate integrates informatics knowledge and skills to provide safe, high-quality care, incorporating best
practices, industry and professional guidance, and regulatory standards.
• The graduate innovates creative, agile responses to complex and evolving care environments through a systems-
based approach to values-based care across the care continuum.
• The graduate effectively communicates and collaborates with interprofessional teams, persons, families, and
communities to optimize care and improve health outcomes using a value-centered approach.
• The graduate collects, analyzes, and interprets data to improve patient outcomes and to provide value-based care
to persons and populations at the local, regional, national, and global levels.
• The graduate engages in self-reflection and other activities to foster personal health, resilience, well-being, and
lifelong learning in a purposeful leadership practice.
• The graduate formulates and cultivates a professional identity that includes accountability, collaborative
disposition, and ethical comportment reflective of the profession's characteristics, norms, and values.
B.S. Nursing (RN to BSN)
• The graduate will develop advanced clinical judgment and comprehensive health assessment abilities. They will
be proficient in assessing the physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual well-being of patients, using current and
innovative techniques to provide holistic care. This includes the ability to critically analyze cultural and lifestyle
factors impacting patient health.
• The graduate will be equipped with leadership skills necessary for influencing positive change in healthcare
settings. They will be able to differentiate between leadership and management principles, apply them across
various healthcare environments, and engage in continuous professional growth. This includes fostering
resilience, self-care, and cultural competence in their practice.
• The graduate will be able to apply evidence-based practices to improve patient outcomes and healthcare quality.
They will demonstrate the ability to conduct research, perform literature reviews, and implement evidence-based
standards of practice, differentiating them from conventional methods. This competency also includes
understanding the ethics of nursing research and patient-centered care.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 227
• The graduate will understand the role of healthcare policy, economics, and information technology in nursing
practice. They will be able to evaluate healthcare policies, leverage health informatics to enhance decision-
making, and advocate for value-based, equitable patient care. Additionally, they will recognize the legal and
ethical implications of informatics in the healthcare environment.
• The graduate will be prepared to address the health needs of diverse populations by applying principles of global
and population health. They will be able to identify social determinants of health, use epidemiological data to
inform interventions, and plan health services that promote disease prevention and environmental health in
community settings.
B.S. Health Information Management
• The graduate integrates key concepts and skills from health information management (HIM) standards and
policies to ensure data quality and integrity in an HIM environment.
• The graduate evaluates privacy and security concerns involved in the use of technology in a healthcare setting.
• The graduate evaluates quality improvement projects to ensure they comply with both internal organizational
processes and applicable standards established by external agencies.
• The graduate determines organizational and departmental readiness for change based on health records
documentation requirements set forth by external agencies (e.g., certifications, accreditation, licensing,
regulatory).
• The graduate analyzes the financial management control processes in healthcare organizations.
• The graduate analyzes procedural and ethical guidelines, rules, and regulations for clinical coding within
healthcare organizations.
• The graduate evaluates data that is found in health information management (HIM) research to support leadership
in improving standards and techniques for electronic health records (EHR) data collection, storage, and protection.
• The graduate recommends strategies to develop and maintain a positive culture in healthcare organizations.
• The graduate exemplifies high professional standards, upholds confidentiality requirements, promotes guidelines
of the American Health Information Management Association Code of Ethics, and demonstrates leadership skills
as a health informatics professional at a healthcare organization.
B.S. Health and Human Services
• The graduate demonstrates compassion and empathy in the administration of health and human services.
• The graduate discusses components of managing affordable quality care with stakeholders.
• The graduate identifies the rights and community health needs of individuals and groups.
• The graduate evaluates community services and resources for positive health and human services outcomes.
• The graduate demonstrates problem solving and decision-making in a given context.
• The graduate collaborates with healthcare team members, clients, and family members for achieving mutually
acceptable care plan goals.
• The graduate develops a plan for achieving goals.
• The graduate demonstrates the ability to communicate in a professional manner that supports achieving high-
quality, safe client care.
B.S. Health Science
• The graduate analyzes the major processes involved in attention, problem-solving, and decision-making.
• The graduate applies ethical strategies for responding to personal biases.
• The graduate applies a framework to assess factors impacting individual well-being.
• The graduate analyzes strategies to improve health equity for a population.
B.S. Psychology
• The graduate applies knowledge of key concepts, principles, theories and content domains in psychology to
human thought, feeling, and behavior.
• The graduate demonstrates psychology information literacy by accessing new information from a variety of
sources, evaluating information for usefulness, validity and accuracy, and summarizing and communicating new
information.
• The graduate applies critical thinking, scientific reasoning, problem-solving skills and an understanding of
sociocultural factors to real-world situations.
• The graduate optimizes their contributions to a diverse society by demonstrating ethically and socially responsible
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 228
behavior and communicating effectively with diverse audiences.
• The graduate applies psychological principles and professional values to enhance interpersonal relationships and
build community.
• The graduate communicates in a variety of styles that are reflective of their consideration of audience, purpose
and format, and communicates in a manner that is sensitive to the experiences of diverse groups.
• The graduate applies principles of psychology to support their own personal and professional growth and
resilience.
B.S. Public Health
• The graduate will be equipped with the skills necessary to promote healthy lifestyles, safeguard community health,
and conduct research on infectious disease prevention.
• The graduate will learn about community public health and a wide range of related topics such as women’s or
gender health, mental health, human sexuality, health and wellness, and both chronic and infectious diseases.
• The graduate will gain skills in planning and implementing evidence-based public health programs that address
the most important health issues affecting communities.
• The graduate will be ready to apply public health principles and practices, including leadership, ethics,
communication, and data-driven decision-making, to real-world public health challenges.
M.S. Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner
• The graduate demonstrates advanced health assessment techniques that are comprehensive and focused to
gather patient health data in the care of individuals and groups across the lifespan as a competent provider.
• The graduate synthesizes subjective and objective data from across the patient lifespan to provide accurate
diagnoses as a competent provider.
• The graduate creates evidence-based and family-centered health plans, including guidelines, clinical expertise,
consumer preferences and values, organizational context, and resource limitations as a competent provider.
• The graduate evaluates the effectiveness of patient health plans in order to modify the plan, offer additional
education, or refer patients to improve quality outcomes as a competent provider.
M.S. Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
• The graduate gathers patient mental health data in the care of individuals, families, and populations across the
lifespan and care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate synthesizes subjective and objective data from individuals, families, and populations across the
lifespan in order to provide accurate mental health diagnoses in a range of care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate creates evidence-based individual-, family-, and population-centered mental health plans, including
guidelines, clinical expertise, consumer preferences and values, organizational context, and resource limitations in
a range of care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate evaluates the effectiveness of individual-, family-, and population-centered mental health plans in
order to modify the plan, offer additional mental health education, or refer patients to other providers to improve
quality outcomes in a range of settings as a competent provider.
M.S. Nursing - Education
• The graduate creates an environment in diverse academic settings that facilitates student learning and the
achievement of desired cognitive, affective, and psychomotor outcomes.
• The graduate synthesizes contemporary theories, concepts, and principles in the development of assessments for
student learning outcomes in various educational settings.
• The graduate designs learning objectives and curricula based on programmatic outcomes and utilization of
evidence for best practice.
• The graduate creates a plan to pursue professional development related to the academic nurse educator role.
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management
• The graduate develops a vision for assuming the role of a leader and manager that includes self-awareness, self-
management, interpersonal communication, executive function, and social awareness.
• The graduate collaborates with internal and external stakeholders to assess the need and organizational
readiness for a healthcare improvement project using improvement science methods and practices.
• The graduate collaborates with key stakeholders to plan for the use of available resources needed to achieve
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 229
project aims and goals.
• The graduate examines the structure, processes, and outcomes of an organizational plan that may facilitate or
impede the implementation of a healthcare improvement project.
• The graduate manages implementation of the healthcare improvement project using organizational standards and
practices to problem-solve risks that emerge during implementation.
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics
• The graduate integrates the latest evidence and technology and the expertise of the interprofessional team to
design or refine clinical decision-support tools.
• The graduate designs innovations in data collection and management, in collaboration with the interprofessional
team, to effect change in practice and improve health outcomes.
• The graduate designs comprehensive solutions, integrating change and complexity theory concepts, for effective
implementation to enhance health outcomes.
M.S. Nursing - Education (RN to MSN)
• The graduate creates an environment in diverse academic settings that facilitates student learning and the
achievement of desired cognitive, affective, and psychomotor outcomes.
• The graduate synthesizes contemporary theories, concepts, and principles in the development of assessments for
student learning outcomes in various educational settings.
• The graduate designs learning objectives and curricula based on programmatic outcomes and utilization of
evidence for best practice.
• The graduate creates a plan to pursue professional development related to the academic nurse educator role.
M.S. Nursing - Leadership and Management (RN to MSN)
• The graduate develops a vision for assuming the role of a leader and manager that includes self-awareness, self-
management, interpersonal communication, executive function, and social awareness.
• The graduate collaborates with internal and external stakeholders to assess the need and organizational
readiness for a healthcare improvement project using improvement science methods and practices.
• The graduate collaborates with key stakeholders to plan for the use of available resources needed to achieve
project aims and goals.
• The graduate examines the structure, processes, and outcomes of an organizational plan that may facilitate or
impede the implementation of a healthcare improvement project.
• The graduate manages implementation of the healthcare improvement project using organizational standards and
practices to problem-solve risks that emerge during implementation.
M.S. Nursing - Nursing Informatics (RN to MSN)
• The graduate integrates the latest evidence and technology and the expertise of the interprofessional team to
design or refine clinical decision-support tools.
• The graduate designs innovations in data collection and management, in collaboration with the interprofessional
team, to effect change in practice and improve health outcomes.
• The graduate designs comprehensive solutions, integrating change and complexity theory concepts, for effective
implementation to enhance health outcomes.
Master of Healthcare Administration
• The graduate recommends methods of organizational communication to increase effectiveness of interpersonal
communication, collaboration, and problem-solving among healthcare organizational stakeholders.
• The graduate proposes solutions that use strategies and processes to lead effective healthcare organizational
change.
• The graduate assesses operational, ethical, governance, regulatory, legal, and financial factors in healthcare that
manage, mitigate, exacerbate, and shift risk.
• The graduate manages healthcare organizational sustainability and productivity by using fiscal management tools,
principles, and strategies.
• The graduate explains how laws, standards, tools, techniques, and procedures are used to maintain data quality
and security within an administrative healthcare environment.
• The graduate evaluates the challenges and opportunities in healthcare technology that will promote better
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 230
healthcare services.
• The graduate analyzes the evolution of the U.S. healthcare system to determine its impact on healthcare
stakeholder interactions.
Master of Public Health
• The graduate advocates for political, social, or economic policies and programs that improve health in diverse
populations.
• The graduate compares the organization, structure, and function of healthcare, public health, and regulatory
systems across national and international settings.
• The graduate develops communication strategies around a public health issue for a diverse population.
• The graduate designs a program using evidence-based solutions to educate a target audience in the community.
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner
• The graduate gathers patient mental health data in the care of individuals, families, and populations across the
lifespan and care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate synthesizes subjective and objective data from individuals, families, and populations across the
lifespan in order to provide accurate mental health diagnoses in a range of care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate creates evidence-based individual-, family-, and population-centered mental health plans, including
guidelines, clinical expertise, consumer preferences and values, organizational context, and resource limitations in
a range of care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate evaluates the effectiveness of individual-, family-, and population-centered mental health plans in
order to modify the plan, offer additional mental health education, or refer patients to other providers to improve
quality outcomes in a range of settings as a competent provider.
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
• The graduate gathers patient mental health data in the care of individuals, families, and populations across the
lifespan and care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate synthesizes subjective and objective data from individuals, families, and populations across the
lifespan in order to provide accurate mental health diagnoses in a range of care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate creates evidence-based individual-, family-, and population-centered mental health plans, including
guidelines, clinical expertise, consumer preferences and values, organizational context, and resource limitations in
a range of care settings as a competent provider.
• The graduate evaluates the effectiveness of individual-, family-, and population-centered mental health plans in
order to modify the plan, offer additional mental health education, or refer patients to other providers to improve
quality outcomes in a range of settings as a competent provider.
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Education
• The graduate creates an environment in diverse academic settings that facilitates student learning and the
achievement of desired cognitive, affective, and psychomotor outcomes.
• The graduate synthesizes contemporary theories, concepts, and principles in the development of assessments for
student learning outcomes in various educational settings.
• The graduate designs learning objectives and curricula based on programmatic outcomes and utilization of
evidence for best practice.
• The graduate creates a plan to pursue professional development related to the academic nurse educator role.
Post-Master's Certificate, Nursing - Leadership and Management
• The graduate develops a vision for assuming the role of a leader and manager that includes self-awareness, self
management, interpersonal communication, executive function, and social awareness.
• The graduate collaborates with internal and external stakeholders to assess the need and organizational
readiness for a healthcare improvement project using improvement science methods and practices.
• The graduate collaborates with key stakeholders to plan for the use of available resources needed to achieve
project aims and goals.
• The graduate examines the structure, processes, and outcomes of an organizational plan that may facilitate or
impede the implementation of a healthcare improvement project.
• The graduate manages implementation of the healthcare improvement project using organizational standards and
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 231
practices to problem-solve risks that emerge during implementation.
Certificate: Nursing Leadership
• The graduate will demonstrate effective leadership and advanced communication skills to manage healthcare
teams and foster interprofessional collaboration for enhanced patient care.
• The graduate will develop personal leadership skills, resilience, and proactive strategies to manage stress and
support their own professional growth while leading others.
• The graduate will apply skills in time management, resource allocation, and creating a healthy workplace culture to
lead their team effectively in high-pressure healthcare environments.
School of Technology
B.S. Cloud Computing (AWS Track)
• The graduate designs security policies and access for cloud applications and architectures.
• The graduate designs cloud service deployments with Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure services,
platform services, and features.
• The graduate monitors automated testing for quality control.
• The graduate configures network connectivity as part of AWS network infrastructure design, troubleshooting, and
remediation.
• The graduate determines optimal baseline for cost and performance using AWS Services.
• The graduate creates implementation plans for cloud solutions.
B.S. Cloud Computing (Azure Track)
• The graduate explains Azure core solutions and management tools.
• The graduate implements secure user and group authentication and authorization with Microsoft Azure Active
Directory, Microsoft Identity Platform, Azure Key Vault, and Microsoft Graph.
• The graduate designs secure data architectures and infrastructure as a service (IaaS) architectures based on
Azure Monitor and Azure Application Insights.
• The graduate architects the end-to-end data security and supporting infrastructures.
• The graduate defines continuous delivery and deployment strategies.
• The graduate creates implementation plans for cloud solutions.
B.S. Cloud Computing (Multi-Cloud Track)
• The graduate designs security policies and access for cloud applications and architectures.
• The graduate explains Azure core solutions and management tools.
• The graduate describes cost management and service lifecycles in Microsoft Azure.
• The graduate implements secure user and group authentication and authorization with Microsoft Azure Active
Directory, Microsoft Identity Platform, Azure Key Vault, and Microsoft Graph.
• The graduate designs secure data architectures and infrastructure as a service (IaaS) architectures based on
Azure Monitor and Azure Application Insights.
• The graduate develops cloud platform integrations for interoperable and compatible functionality.
• The graduate creates implementation plans for cloud solutions.
B.S. Computer Science
• The graduate applies core information technology skills in IT systems, operating systems, networking, security,
scripting and programming, data management, project management, and web development to support
organizational functions.
• The graduate will be able to solve computing problems using critical thinking and mathematical reasoning.
• The graduate will be able to develop secure software systems to support organizational goals and needs.
• The graduate will be able to analyze the impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society in relation
to professional, social, ethical, legal, security, business, and global issues and responsibilities.
• The graduate will be able to create computer-based solutions using autonomous frameworks and algorithms.
• The graduate will be able to use effective communication and team-focused skills and recognize the need for
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 232
professional development and life-long learning.
B.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
• The graduate will be able to evaluate security of a given system design according to defined security goals.
• The graduate will be able to mitigate security concerns related to network, cloud, cellular, mobile, and wireless
technologies.
• The graduate will be able to evaluate the effectiveness of an organization’s cyber operations to protect and
preserve data.
• The graduate will be able to conduct digital forensics as part of an incident response plan.
• The graduate will be able to create a risk management plan that includes disaster recovery and continuity plan for
information systems within a given organization.
• The graduate will be able to relate ethical principles and legal issues governing cyber operations within an
organization.
• The graduate applies core information technology skills in IT systems, operating systems, networking, security,
scripting and programming, data management, and project management to support organizational functions.
B.S. Data Analytics
• The graduate identifies an appropriate data architecture according to organizational needs.
• The graduate applies data wrangling techniques to investigate data sets.
• The graduate uses data cleansing processes to transform data for downstream analysis.
• The graduate creates visuals using code to communicate insights from data analysis.
• The graduate creates a report presenting data analysis findings that incorporates best practices for data
visualization design.
• The graduate implements an end-to-end Machine Learning pipeline to address organizational needs.
B.S. Information Technology
• The graduate identifies operating systems and their configurations.
• The graduate explains user interface design principles.
• The graduate recommends databases and database management systems to meet organizational needs.
• The graduate articulates the value proposition of cloud solutions in business scenarios.
• The graduate determines the impact of a proposed technology on an organization.
• The graduate optimizes network operations for availability, performance, and security.
• The graduate identifies threats, attacks, and vulnerabilities to organizational security.
• The graduate develops resources for data access and security.
B.S. Network Engineering and Security
• The graduate identifies software defined networking (SDN) concepts and services used in development of network
infrastructures.
• The graduate determines how to maintain networks with centralized monitoring and troubleshooting processes.
• The graduate uses industry standard tools for automation and scripting.
• The graduate develops automated solutions with scripting and APIs for continuous integration.
• The graduate applies Python principles and syntax to manage variables, data structures, and operators and to
perform IT tasks.
• The graduate identifies security policies and procedures for cloud applications.
B.S. Network Engineering and Security (Cisco Track)
• The graduate configures network access and management for secure operations.
• The graduate implements prevention, intrusion detection systems, and remediation processes for hosts on the
network.
• The graduate determines how to maintain network security throughout the security lifecycle.
• The graduate determines how to deploy automated solutions with scripting, APIs, and web application services for
continuous integration.
• The graduate determines how to secure networks with firewalls, system monitoring, and vulnerability analysis.
• The graduate applies Python principles and syntax to manage variables, data structures, and operators and to
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 233
perform IT tasks.
• The graduate identifies security policies and procedures for cloud applications.
B.S. Software Engineering (Java Track)
• The graduate explains design decisions based on the history and foundations of technology stacks.
• The graduate creates methods in Java.
• The graduate implements object-oriented programming frameworks.
• The graduate writes code for object-oriented applications using Spring framework.
• The graduate designs mobile application infrastructure and user interfaces.
• The graduate describes alternative methods in overcoming mobile application development problems.
• The graduate writes multithreaded, object-oriented code using Java frameworks.
• The graduate determines how to deploy software applications using cloud services.
B.S. Software Engineering (C# Track)
• The graduate produces applications using high-level programming language constructs to meet business
requirements.
• The graduate develops user interfaces to meet project requirements.
• The graduate applies application programming interfaces (APIs) in application development to support end users
in various geographic regions.
• The graduate incorporates advanced exception control mechanisms in application development for improving user
experience and application stability.
• The graduate explains design decisions based on the history and foundations of technology stacks.
• The graduate explains the configuration and deployment of software applications.
• The graduate develops a simple mobile application using an integrated development environment (IDE).
• The graduate develops an application that accounts for different platforms and device conditions.
• The graduate writes basic scripts to accomplish tasks with JavaScript.
M.S. Computer Science - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
• The graduate applies AI and machine learning concepts to solve complex problems using logic and advanced
programming techniques.
• The graduate develops advanced operating system components, scalable computer systems, and architectures
for efficient performance and resource utilization.
• The graduate evaluates vulnerabilities, protective measures for computing systems and data, compliance with
privacy standards, and the syntax and semantics of programming languages.
• The graduate applies advanced machine learning algorithms, AI research, and data science methodologies to
solve complex problems across various domains.
M.S. Computer Science - Human-Computer Interaction
• The graduate applies AI and machine learning concepts to solve complex problems using logic and advanced
programming techniques.
• The graduate develops advanced operating system components, scalable computer systems, and architectures
for efficient performance and resource utilization.
• The graduate evaluates vulnerabilities, protective measures for computing systems and data, compliance with
privacy standards, and the syntax and semantics of programming languages.
• The graduate develops user-centric technology solutions informed by user research and interaction design
principles.
M.S. Computer Science - Computing Systems
• The graduate applies AI and machine learning concepts to solve complex problems using logic and advanced
programming techniques.
• The graduate develops advanced operating system components, scalable computer systems, and architectures
for efficient performance and resource utilization.
• The graduate evaluates vulnerabilities, protective measures for computing systems and data, compliance with
privacy standards, and the syntax and semantics of programming languages.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 234
• The graduate designs large-scale systems, innovative operating systems, and network infrastructures.
M.S. Cybersecurity and Information Assurance
• The graduate determines optimal software design for given requirements.
• The graduate evaluates a penetration testing engagement plan.
• The graduate designs secure network architecture solutions for the enterprise.
• The graduate implements secure solutions to manage cybersecurity risks.
• The graduate designs technical integration of cybersecurity solutions to protect enterprises.
• The graduate develops secure architecture to comply with organizational governance, risk, and compliance
strategies.
• The graduate describes the risks, standards, and roles that inform a company’s information security policy.
M.S. Data Analytics (Data Science)
• The graduate will develop expertise in applying data analytics life cycles, including data mining, statistical
modeling, and predictive analytics. They will be proficient in using both supervised and unsupervised machine
learning techniques, such as regression analysis, classification models, clustering, and dimensional reduction, to
derive actionable insights from complex datasets.
• The graduate will possess strong competencies in data management, including the ability to work with both
relational and non-relational databases. They will be capable of designing and implementing data storage
architectures, performing complex data queries using SQL, and managing data integrity and quality throughout the
analytics process.
• The graduate will demonstrate advanced programming skills in languages such as Python and R, enabling them to
perform data acquisition, preparation, exploration, and the development of analytical models. They will be adept at
leveraging programming libraries and frameworks for tasks such as statistical analysis, machine learning, and data
visualization.
• The graduate will be skilled in translating complex data findings into compelling stories and visualizations tailored
to diverse audiences, including technical and non-technical stakeholders. They will be able to create interactive
dashboards, visual data representations, and deliver presentations that effectively communicate data-driven
insights to inform business decisions.
• The graduate will be equipped to deploy data analytics solutions within organizational contexts, ensuring
scalability, security, and usability. They will also be capable of optimizing business processes through advanced
techniques such as neural networks, deep learning, and natural language processing, and solving optimization
problems using algorithmic approaches.
M.S. Data Analytics (Data Engineering)
• The graduate will develop advanced skills in data management, including working with both relational and non-
relational databases. They will be proficient in designing, implementing, and managing cloud-native data
architectures, ensuring scalability, security, and efficiency in handling large-scale data systems.
• The graduate will gain competencies in automating data flows within analytics systems using Extract, Transform,
and Load (ETL) processes. They will be adept at designing and implementing data pipelines, both batch and
streaming, to process and transform data efficiently within cloud environments, supporting real-time analytics and
large-scale data processing.
• The graduate will be skilled in using programming languages such as Python and R to perform data acquisition,
organization, and analysis. They will also be proficient in applying statistical data mining techniques, including
supervised and unsupervised machine learning, to derive insights from complex datasets and inform business
decisions.
• The graduate will develop the ability to scale data analytics solutions using big data technologies such as Apache
Spark and cloud-native tools. They will be able to design, implement, and optimize large-scale data analytics
architectures, integrating data processing pipelines and storage solutions to address complex business
challenges.
• The graduate will be adept at translating complex data engineering and analytics results into compelling narratives
and visualizations. They will be able to communicate insights effectively to both technical and non-technical
stakeholders, using interactive dashboards and data storytelling techniques to support strategic decision-making.
M.S. Data Analytics (Decision Process Engineering)
• The graduate will develop proficiency in applying the data analytics life cycle, including data mining, statistical
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 235
analysis, and predictive modeling, to solve complex business problems. They will be capable of leveraging both
supervised and unsupervised machine learning techniques to extract insights from data and drive decision-
making.
• The graduate will gain expertise in analyzing, visualizing, and improving business processes. They will be able to
design and implement process engineering methodologies to enhance organizational efficiency and address
specific business needs, using tools and frameworks commonly applied in business process reengineering.
• The graduate will be equipped with project management skills necessary for planning, executing, and managing
analytics projects. They will understand the core concepts of the Project Management Institute framework and be
able to apply project management tools and techniques across the project life cycle, ensuring successful project
delivery in data-driven initiatives.
• The graduate will develop competencies in decision intelligence, focusing on optimizing decision-making
processes by balancing technology, processes, and people. They will apply decision intelligence principles,
including behavioral frameworks and multi-criteria decision analysis, to support business decision-making, while
integrating human-centered design techniques to ensure user-friendly solutions.
• The graduate will be skilled in translating complex data analyses into compelling narratives and visualizations
tailored to diverse audiences. They will be able to conduct audience analysis, design interactive dashboards, and
effectively communicate data insights to both technical and non-technical stakeholders, driving informed decision-
making within organizations.
M.S. Information Technology Management
• The graduate develops security policy, standards, procedures, and guidelines to strategically secure an
organization’s assets.
• The graduate generates technical information according to principles of ethics, clarity, and conciseness to ensure
content integrity.
• The graduate selects appropriate strategies that foster engagement and collaboration among a variety of teams.
• The graduate justifies the use of specific conflict management strategies as a means of maximizing results for all
relevant stakeholders.
• The graduate formulates the alignment of IT operations with an organization's strategic vision and objectives.
• The graduate analyzes information technology trends and initiatives in a global context to ensure alignment with
an organization’s mission and business goals.
• The graduate explains the core concepts that make up the Project Management Institute framework and life cycle
and the environment in which projects operate.
• The graduate proposes cloud, security, and data infrastructure and business strategies.
• The graduate identifies technologies in a tech stack, explains their relationships, and develops a cohesive
technology strategy using current and new technologies to meet business needs.
• The graduate strategizes solutions to problems in a broader business context and competitive landscape.
• The graduate applies product management approaches for IT implementation.
• The graduate manages a product across a program lifecycle: conducting product research, creating basic designs,
collecting feedback, launching a product, and managing a product post launch.
• The graduate creates a product vision and roadmap.
M.S. Software Engineering - AI Engineering
• The graduate will be able to design, develop, and deploy secure software solutions, troubleshoot, and debug
software applications, and develop and implement software testing plans.
• The graduate will be able to use effective communication skills to gather technical requirements from stakeholders
and relay those requirements to team members.
• The graduate applies critical thinking, data analysis, ethical considerations, and problem-solving skills within
project planning, creating budgets and timelines managing a software development project.
• The graduate will be able to identify issues in code, come up with solutions, and work with others to implement
and test those solutions.
• The graduate develops and implements tools, systems, and processes that enable artificial intelligence to be
applied in software products.
M.S. Software Engineering - DevOps Engineering
• The graduate will be able to design, develop, and deploy secure software solutions, troubleshoot, and debug
software applications, and develop and implement software testing plans.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 236
• The graduate will be able to use effective communication skills to gather technical requirements from stakeholders
and relay those requirements to team members.
• The graduate applies critical thinking, data analysis, ethical considerations, and problem-solving skills within
project planning, creating budgets and timelines managing a software development project.
• The graduate will be able to identify issues in code, come up with solutions, and work with others to implement
and test those solutions.
• The graduate will proficiently orchestrate the software development lifecycle by implementing and optimizing
continuous integration and delivery pipelines.
• The graduate will demonstrate mastery in efficiently managing infrastructure through the strategic application of
infrastructure as code, providing effective solutions for both operations and development teams.
M.S. Software Engineering - Domain Driven Design
• The graduate will be able to design, develop, and deploy secure software solutions, troubleshoot, and debug
software applications, and develop and implement software testing plans.
• The graduate will be able to use effective communication skills to gather technical requirements from stakeholders
and relay those requirements to team members.
• The graduate applies critical thinking, data analysis, ethical considerations, and problem-solving skills within
project planning, creating budgets and timelines managing a software development project.
• The graduate will be able to identify issues in code, come up with solutions, and work with others to implement
and test those solutions.
• The graduate will use strategic and tactical design patterns to design secure and scalable software solutions that
model complex business domains and meet the objectives of a business.
Certificate: Back End Web Development
• The graduate creates methods in Java.
• The graduate implements object-oriented programming frameworks.
• The graduate writes code for object-oriented applications using Spring framework.
• The graduate designs mobile application infrastructure and user interfaces.
• The graduate describes alternative methods in overcoming mobile application development problems.
Certificate: Front End Web Development
• The graduate creates the structure of basic web documents using HTML and XML.
• The graduate identifies scripts for computer program requirements.
• The graduate implements data entry and data storage capabilities in a web environment.
• The graduate implements user-centered solutions from multiple perspectives emphasizing usability and functional
page layouts.
Certificate: Web Application Deployment and Support
• The graduate writes basic scripts to accomplish tasks with JavaScript.
• The graduate develops resources for data access and security.
• The graduate articulates the value proposition of cloud solutions in business scenarios.
• The graduate writes scripts that automate configuration tasks.
Certificate: ServiceNow Application Developer
• The graduate uses tips, tricks, and how-to guides to effectively navigate and fully understand the ServiceNow
platform’s features and capabilities.
• The graduate develops a custom application using various considerations for application creation.
• The graduate writes, tests, and debugs scripts using JavaScript.
Certificate: Data Analytics Skills
• The graduate demonstrates proficiency in quantitative analysis and statistical reasoning to interpret data and
support data-driven decision making.
• The graduate applies foundational coding and programming skills to automate data manipulation, cleaning, and
transformation processes.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 237
• The graduate utilizes database systems and SQL to query, analyze, and extract meaningful insights from
structured data.
• The graduate visualizes and communicates data insights effectively using industry-standard tools to inform
decision-making.
Certificate: Data Engineering Professional
• The graduate will be able to design and implement robust and scalable data pipelines for acquiring, transforming,
and storing data in distributed environments, enabling efficient downstream analysis and business decision-
making.
• The graduate will demonstrate proficiency in evaluating organizational requirements and deploying secure,
scalable cloud-based data architectures to support enterprise data workflows and analytics.
• The graduate will apply advanced analytical methods and tools to solve large-scale data challenges, including
implementing and optimizing big data solutions for real-world business problems.
Certificate: AI Skills Fundamentals
• The graduate will apply AI tools to enhance productivity and streamline business processes.
• The graduate will evaluate and address ethical considerations in AI implementation.
• The graduate will demonstrate proficiency in problem-solving with AI through prompt engineering and applied AI
skills.
School of Education
B.A. Elementary Education
• The graduate demonstrates an ongoing commitment to applying the science of learning to instructional practice,
supporting unique learning needs, engaging with learners and families, developing and utilizing varied assessment
methods, creating mutually respectful relationships with and between students, integrating technology to enhance
learning, and to growing their professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate applies a comprehensive understanding of foundational special education subject matter and
learning standards to support student learning effectively.
• The graduate applies learning sciences and the instructional cycle knowledge and developmentally appropriate
practices to actively engage students in the learning process and foster a culture conducive to academic growth.
• The graduate applies knowledge, skills and professional dispositions to strategically plan and implement effective
instruction in an elementary education setting.
B.A. Special Education and Elementary Education (Dual Licensure)
• The graduate demonstrates an ongoing commitment to applying the science of learning to instructional practice,
supporting unique learning needs, engaging with learners and families, developing and utilizing varied assessment
methods, creating mutually respectful relationships with and between students, integrating technology to enhance
learning, and to growing their professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate applies a comprehensive understanding of foundational special education subject matter and
learning standards to support student learning effectively.
• The graduate applies learning sciences and the instructional cycle knowledge and developmentally appropriate
practices to actively engage students in the learning process and foster a culture conducive to academic growth.
• The graduate applies knowledge, skills and professional dispositions to strategically plan and implement effective
instruction in an elementary education setting.
B.A. Special Education (Mild to Moderate)
• The graduate demonstrates an ongoing commitment to applying the science of learning to instructional practice,
supporting unique learning needs, engaging with learners and families, developing and utilizing varied assessment
methods, creating mutually respectful relationships with and between students, integrating technology to enhance
learning, and to growing their professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate applies a comprehensive understanding of foundational special education subject matter and
learning standards to support student learning effectively.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 238
• The graduate applies learning sciences and the instructional cycle knowledge and developmentally appropriate
practices to actively engage students in the learning process and foster a culture conducive to academic growth.
• The graduate applies knowledge, skills and professional dispositions to strategically plan and implement effective
instruction in an elementary education setting.
B.S. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
B.S. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 239
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
B.A. Educational Studies in Elementary Education
• The graduate demonstrates an ongoing commitment to applying the science of learning to instructional practice,
supporting unique learning needs, engaging with learners and families, developing and utilizing varied assessment
methods, creating mutually respectful relationships with and between students, integrating technology to enhance
learning, and to growing their professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate applies a comprehensive understanding of foundational special education subject matter and
learning standards to support student learning effectively.
• The graduate applies learning sciences and the instructional cycle knowledge and developmentally appropriate
practices to actively engage students in the learning process and foster a culture conducive to academic growth.
B.A. Educational Studies in Special and Elementary Education
• The graduate demonstrates an ongoing commitment to applying the science of learning to instructional practice,
supporting unique learning needs, engaging with learners and families, developing and utilizing varied assessment
methods, creating mutually respectful relationships with and between students, integrating technology to enhance
learning, and to growing their professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate applies a comprehensive understanding of foundational special education subject matter and
learning standards to support student learning effectively.
• The graduate applies learning sciences and the instructional cycle knowledge and developmentally appropriate
practices to actively engage students in the learning process and foster a culture conducive to academic growth.
B.A. Educational Studies in Mild to Moderate Exceptionalities Special Education
• The graduate demonstrates an ongoing commitment to applying the science of learning to instructional practice,
supporting unique learning needs, engaging with learners and families, developing and utilizing varied assessment
methods, creating mutually respectful relationships with and between students, integrating technology to enhance
learning, and to growing their professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate applies a comprehensive understanding of foundational special education subject matter and
learning standards to support student learning effectively.
• The graduate applies learning sciences and the instructional cycle knowledge and developmentally appropriate
practices to actively engage students in the learning process and foster a culture conducive to academic growth.
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Mathematics Education
• The graduate analyzes the axiomatic nature of Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometries to reflect on geometric
reasoning and formal proof.
• The graduate demonstrates understanding of functions of more than one variable and applies that knowledge to
solve problems.
• The graduate applies matrix theory and matrix algebra to model and solve problems.
• The graduate demonstrates an understanding of important number theory principles, their applications, and
proofs.
• The graduate analyzes functions of one real variable using precise definitions and theorems to develop an
advanced perspective.
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Biological Science Education
• The graduate examines chemical principles, enzymes, biochemical pathways, energy flow, and cellular
environments to analyze cellular metabolism.
• The graduate applies the principles of population genetics to determine characteristics of a population.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 240
• The graduate analyzes the anatomies of animals to distinguish the relationships among organisms.
• The graduate has an in-depth understanding of how coevolution, genetic drift, natural selection, and sexual
selection contribute to the organization of the Earth’s biodiversity.
• The graduate synthesizes concepts and processes from across biology to generate a comprehensive
understanding of the field.
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Chemistry Science Education
• The graduate analyzes nuclear reactions to determine the nature of the nuclear decay.
• The graduate applies concepts of thermodynamics and electrochemistry to analyze the interchange of chemical
and electrical energy.
• The graduate can demonstrate how the structure of a material's molecules can determine its strength and uses.
• The graduate applies mechanisms to analyze organic reactions, including organic synthesis.
• The graduate analyzes the role of ATP in carbohydrate metabolism and the impact of irregular ATP synthesis on
the human body.
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Earth Science Education
• The graduate assesses the challenges associated with resource management in order to compare potential
sustainable solutions.
• The graduate analyzes composition, location, movement, and physical evidence of tectonic plates to distinguish
landforms and geologic features.
• The graduate analyzes how Earth's systems (i.e., biosphere, geosphere, atmosphere, and hydrosphere) interface
and evolve over geologic time to teach biologic, geologic, atmospheric, meteorologic, and hydrologic interaction.
• The graduate analyzes the interrelationships of life forms, natural systems, and cycles within the ocean
environment.
• The graduate applies tools and techniques necessary to study astronomical objects and events.
B.A. Educational Studies in Secondary Physics Science Education
• The graduate has a broad understanding of energy, including mechanics, heat, and electricity and magnetism.
• The graduate applies concepts of static and dynamic fluids to solve problems.
• The graduate applies models of light to solve problems and describe the behavior of light.
• The graduate demonstrates an understanding of electromagnetic waves and the electromagnetic spectrum.
• The graduate appraises emergent research in superstring theory, dark energy, and the grand unified theory.
M.A. Teaching, Elementary Education
• The graduate demonstrates an advanced and continuous commitment to synthesizing the science of learning into
instructional practice, addressing complex and unique learning needs, collaborating with learners and families,
designing and implementing clear assessment methods, fostering and nurturing mutually respectful relationships
with and between students, leveraging technology to enhance and transform learning, and cultivating their
professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate demonstrates a thorough comprehension and critically evaluates foundational special education
subject matter and learning standards to enhance and innovate student learning effectively.
• The graduate synthesizes and applies advanced learning sciences and instructional cycle knowledge, designs and
implements developmentally appropriate practices to deeply engage students in the learning process, and fosters
and leads a culture that is conducive to academic growth and excellence.
• The graduate integrates and reflects upon knowledge, skills, and professional dispositions to design, plan, and
implement highly effective and innovative instruction in a special education setting, demonstrating leadership and
mentorship capabilities.
• The graduate develops and curates an advanced professional portfolio that exemplifies their educational
philosophy, extensive teaching experiences, and significant professional achievements. The portfolio will enable
learners to demonstrate their expertise in curriculum design, classroom management, student assessment, and
educational technology through rigorous and innovative practices. Additionally, the portfolio requires candidates to
synthesize and apply research, theory, and practice in complex special education contexts, showcasing their
leadership and reflective practice in the field.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 241
M.A. Teaching, English Education (Secondary)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
M.A. Teaching, Mathematics Education (Secondary)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
M.A. Teaching, Science Education (Secondary)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
M.A. Teaching, Social Studies Education (Secondary)
• The graduate demonstrates an advanced and continuous commitment to synthesizing the science of learning into
instructional practice, addressing complex and unique learning needs, collaborating with learners and families,
designing and implementing clear assessment methods, fostering and nurturing mutually respectful relationships
with and between students, leveraging technology to enhance and transform learning, and cultivating their
professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate demonstrates a thorough comprehension and critically evaluates foundational secondary social
studies subject matter and learning standards to enhance and innovate student learning effectively.
• The graduate synthesizes and applies advanced learning sciences and instructional cycle knowledge, designs and
implements developmentally appropriate practices to deeply engage students in the learning process, and fosters
and leads a culture that is conducive to academic growth and excellence.
• The graduate integrates and reflects upon knowledge, skills, and professional dispositions to design, plan, and
implement highly effective and innovative instruction in a secondary education setting, demonstrating leadership
and mentorship capabilities.
• The graduate develops and curates an advanced professional portfolio that exemplifies their educational
philosophy, extensive teaching experiences, and significant professional achievements. The portfolio will enable
learners to demonstrate their expertise in curriculum design, classroom management, student assessment, and
educational technology through rigorous and innovative practices. Additionally, the portfolio requires candidates to
synthesize and apply research, theory, and practice in complex secondary education contexts, showcasing their
leadership and reflective practice in the field.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 242
M.A. Teaching, Special Education
• The graduate demonstrates an advanced and continuous commitment to synthesizing the science of learning into
instructional practice, addressing complex and unique learning needs, collaborating with learners and families,
designing and implementing clear assessment methods, fostering and nurturing mutually respectful relationships
with and between students, leveraging technology to enhance and transform learning, and cultivating their
professional dispositions as an educator.
• The graduate demonstrates a thorough comprehension and critically evaluates foundational special education
subject matter and learning standards to enhance and innovate student learning effectively.
• The graduate synthesizes and applies advanced learning sciences and instructional cycle knowledge, designs and
implements developmentally appropriate practices to deeply engage students in the learning process, and fosters
and leads a culture that is conducive to academic growth and excellence.
• The graduate integrates and reflects upon knowledge, skills, and professional dispositions to design, plan, and
implement highly effective and innovative instruction in a special education setting, demonstrating leadership and
mentorship capabilities.
• The graduate develops and curates an advanced professional portfolio that exemplifies their educational
philosophy, extensive teaching experiences, and significant professional achievements. The portfolio will enable
learners to demonstrate their expertise in curriculum design, classroom management, student assessment, and
educational technology through rigorous and innovative practices. Additionally, the portfolio requires candidates to
synthesize and apply research, theory, and practice in complex special education contexts, showcasing their
leadership and reflective practice in the field.
M.S. Curriculum and Instruction
• The graduate applies curriculum models to inform the design processes and achieve curricular goals.
• The graduate applies instructional models to design effective and engaging learning experiences.
• The graduate designs authentic learning activities that leverage digital tools to maximize active, deep learning.
• The graduate develops strategies to support stakeholders in implementing curriculum for a diverse group of
students.
M.S. Educational Leadership
• The graduate explains how federal law, state law, and case law has impacted American schooling since the
1800s.
• The graduate evaluates curricula in order to make recommendations for improvements that will address academic
and non-academic gaps.
• The graduate evaluates school and individual performance data to create professional growth plans for staff and
personal development that promote leadership, well-being, and professional growth to support a school's mission,
vision, and values.
• The graduate analyzes school accounting systems to ensure legal and ethical use of financial resources.
• The graduate integrates operational systems to create a school environment conducive to learning.
• The graduate presents the completed research study paper supported by a multimedia and oral presentation,
contributing to the body of knowledge in the chosen field of specialization.
M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (K-12 and Adult Learner)
• The graduate designs collaborative e-learning experiences to improve learning for K–12 students.
• The graduate designs opportunities for assessment and feedback in e-learning experiences for K–12 students.
• The graduate designs inclusive experiential and transformative e-learning experiences for adults.
• The graduate designs inclusive problem-based e-learning experiences for adults.
• The graduate defines an instructional problem based on learner analysis.
M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (Adult Learner)
• The graduate designs inclusive experiential and transformative e-learning experiences for adults.
• The graduate designs inclusive problem-based e-learning experiences for adults.
• The graduate defines an instructional problem based on learner analysis.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 243
M.Ed. Education Technology and Instructional Design (K-12 Learner)
• The graduate designs collaborative e-learning experiences to improve learning for K–12 students.
• The graduate designs opportunities for assessment and feedback in e-learning experiences for K–12 students.
• The graduate defines an instructional problem based on learner analysis.
M.A. English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
• The graduate understands language as a system and applies this understanding to help English language learning
(ELL) students acquire and use English in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for social and academic
purposes.
• The graduate understands and applies concepts, linguistic theories, research, knowledge of the structure of
English, and sociolinguistics to facilitate the acquisition of new language in and out of classroom settings.
• The graduate knows, understands, and uses the major concepts, principles, theories, and research related to the
nature and role of culture in language development and academic achievement.
• The graduate knows, understands, and applies concepts, research, and best practices to plan classroom
instruction in a supportive learning environment for English language learner (ELL) students.
• The graduate understands the importance of acting as a professional resource, advocating for English language
learner (ELL) students, and building partnerships with students' families.
• The graduate evaluates teaching experiences including the planning and implementing of curriculum and
instruction through ongoing reflection.
M.A. Mathematics Education (K-6)
• The graduate understands fractions, decimals and percentages and uses this knowledge to perform the basic
arithmetic algorithms, estimate, and decide upon the equivalence of rational numbers.
• The graduate understands how to solve linear and quadratic equations and linear inequalities and uses this
knowledge to model and solve problems.
• The graduate demonstrates plane geometric and three-dimensional reasoning, concepts and principles and
locates, develops and solves real world problems using important geometric and measurement principles.
• The graduate describes the theory of probability, including the fundamental counting principle, and its relationship
to sampling, statistical inference, and how to make and evaluate predictions.
• The graduate applies the fundamental ideas of discrete mathematics including logic, set theory, and graph theory
in formulating and solving problems.
M.A. Mathematics Education (Middle Grades)
• The graduate will possess a deep and comprehensive understanding of middle-grade mathematics topics,
including algebra, geometry, calculus, trigonometry, and probability. They will be capable of applying advanced
mathematical concepts and techniques to solve complex problems and to facilitate student learning effectively in
the classroom.
• The graduate will be skilled in designing and implementing mathematics curricula and instructional strategies that
are grounded in research and best practices. They will be able to create engaging, standards-aligned lessons that
accommodate the diverse needs of middle-grade students and promote a deep understanding of mathematical
concepts.
• The graduate will develop expertise in designing and utilizing various assessment tools to measure student
understanding and progress. They will be proficient in interpreting assessment data to inform instructional
decisions, differentiate instruction, and enhance student achievement in mathematics.
• The graduate will be able to incorporate technology effectively into mathematics instruction to support student
engagement and learning. Additionally, they will have a strong understanding of the historical development of
mathematical concepts and will be able to integrate this knowledge into their teaching to provide students with a
richer understanding of the subject.
• The graduate will demonstrate the ability to conduct educational research, critically evaluate research findings,
and apply research-based practices in their teaching. They will also be committed to continuous professional
development, reflecting on their teaching practices and seeking opportunities for growth to improve their
effectiveness as mathematics educators.
M.A. Mathematics Education (Secondary)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 244
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
M.A. Science Education (Middle Grades)
• The graduate will have an in-depth understanding of key concepts across various scientific disciplines, including
biology, chemistry, physics, and earth sciences. This knowledge enables them to teach these subjects effectively
at the middle grades level, helping students build a strong foundation in science.
• The graduate will be skilled in designing and implementing science curricula that align with educational standards
and incorporate best practices in science education. They will be able to create engaging, inquiry-based lessons
that integrate the three dimensions of science learning: disciplinary core ideas, crosscutting concepts, and science
and engineering practices.
• The graduate will be proficient in using a variety of assessment tools to measure student understanding and
progress in science. They will be able to analyze assessment data to inform instructional decisions, differentiate
instruction, and ensure that all students achieve mastery of the content.
• The graduate will be equipped to integrate technology into their science instruction effectively, using digital tools to
enhance student engagement and learning. They will also have a strong understanding of laboratory safety
procedures and ethical considerations, ensuring a safe and supportive learning environment for all students.
• The graduate will demonstrate a commitment to continuous professional development and reflective practice.
They will be able to evaluate their teaching experiences, seek opportunities for growth, and contribute to the field
of science education through ongoing inquiry and learning.
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Biological Science)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Chemistry)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Earth Science)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 245
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
M.A. Science Education (Secondary Physics)
• The graduate evaluates the teaching context to accommodate student differences to plan for instruction and
assessment.
• The graduate plans learning environments that support individual learning, collaboration, and positive social
interaction.
• The graduate applies instructional strategies that promote learning, engage students, and provide differentiated
instruction.
• The graduate integrates strategies to develop academic language that facilitates effective student participation
and engagement in learning.
• The graduate utilizes assessment data to profile student learning, communicate information about student
progress and achievement, and guide and modify instruction.
Endorsement Preparation Program, English Language Learning (ELL) (PreK-12)
• The graduate understands language as a system and applies this understanding to help English language learning
(ELL) students acquire and use English in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for social and academic
purposes.
• The graduate understands and applies concepts, linguistic theories, research, knowledge of the structure of
English, and sociolinguistics to facilitate the acquisition of new language in and out of classroom settings.
• The graduate knows, understands, and uses the major concepts, principles, theories, and research related to the
nature and role of culture in language development and academic achievement.
• The graduate knows, understands, and applies concepts, research, and best practices to plan classroom
instruction in a supportive learning environment for English language learner (ELL) students.
• The graduate understands the importance of acting as a professional resource, advocating for English language
learner (ELL) students, and building partnerships with students' families.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 246
Courses
https://cm.wgu.edu/t5/WGU-Student-Policy-Handbook/Course-Descriptions-and-Course-of-Study/ta-p/38923
AFT2 - Accreditation Audit - Accreditation Audit covers regulatory audits, resource assessment, quality improvement, patient care improvement,
organization plans, risk management, effective interaction, and compliance as evidenced during an accreditation audit.
AIT2 - Organic Chemistry - Organic Chemistry focuses on the study of compounds that contain carbon, much of which is learning how to organize and
group organic compounds in order to predict their structure, behavior, and reactivity based on common bonds found within an organic compound.
AMT2 - Service Line Development - Service Line Development will address how to critically assess the competitive marketplace as well as the internal
environment to establish a new line of business. Topics include needs assessment, international healthcare trends, service line management, revenue
analysis, costs and productivity, communication, negotiation, health policy, health legislation, and facilities management, which are variables in the
evaluation process.
AOA2 - Number Sense and Functions - Number Sense and Functions is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work.
This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as number
sense, patterns and functions, integers and order of operations, fractions, decimals, and percentages.
ASA1 - Assessment Theory and Practice - Assessment Theory and Practice focuses on issues central to assessment in the ELL environment,
including high-stakes testing, standardized tests, placement and exit assessment, formative and summative assessments, and making adaptations in
assessments to meet the needs of ELL students.
AUA2 - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities - Graphing, Proportional Reasoning and Equations/Inequalities is a performance-
based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original
lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as coordinate pairs and graphing, ratios and proportional reasoning, and equations and
inequalities.
AVA2 - Geometry and Statistics - Geometry and Statistics is a performance-based assessment that evaluates a student's portfolio of work. This
portfolio includes the student's responses to various prompts and an original lesson plan for each of the mathematics modules such as geometry and
measurement, statistics and probability.
BVT2 - Physical Chemistry - Physical Chemistry introduces the study of chemistry in terms of physical concepts. It includes thermodynamics, reaction
kinetics, chemical equilibrium, electrochemistry, and matter.
BWT2 - Inorganic Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry introduces the concepts of inorganic chemistry—the branch of chemistry that studies the properties
and behavior of any compound, avoiding a specific focus on carbon. It will focus on the three most important areas of inorganic chemistry: the
structure, properties, and reactions of various groups of inorganic compounds.
BYT2 - Physics: Mechanics - Physics: Mechanics introduces foundational concepts of mechanics, including motion, gravitation, work and energy,
momentum and collisions, rotational motion, static equilibrium, fluids, and oscillation.
BZT2 - Physics: Waves and Optics - Physics: Waves and Optics addresses foundational topics in the physics of waves and optics. Students will study
basic wave motion and then apply that knowledge to the study of sound and light with even further applications to optical instruments. This course will
also cover thermodynamics and theories governing the physics of gases.
C100 - Introduction to Humanities - This introductory humanities course allows candidates to practice essential writing, communication, and critical
thinking skills necessary to engage in civic and professional interactions as mature, informed adults. Whether through studying literature, visual and
performing arts, or philosophy, all humanities courses stress the need to form reasoned, analytical, and articulate responses to cultural and creative
works. Studying a wide variety of creative works allows candidates to more effectively enter the global community with a broad and enlightened
perspective.
C121 - Survey of United States History - This course presents a broad and thematic survey of U.S. history from European colonization to the mid-
twentieth century. Students will explore how historical events and major themes in American history have affected a diverse population.
C165 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical, everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
C168 - Critical Thinking and Logic - Reasoning and Problem Solving helps candidates internalize a systematic process for exploring issues that takes
them beyond an unexamined point of view and encourages them to become more self-aware thinkers by applying principles of problem identification
and clarification, planning and information gathering, identifying assumptions and values, analyzing and interpreting information and data, reaching
well-founded conclusions, and identifying the role of critical thinking in disciplines and professions.
C172 - Network and Security - Foundations - Network and Security - Foundations introduces students to the components of a computer network and
the concept and role of communication protocols. The course covers widely used categorical classifications of networks (e.g., LAN, MAN, WAN,
WLAN, PAN, SAN, CAN, and VPN) as well as network topologies, physical devices, and layered abstraction. The course also introduces students to
basic concepts of security, covering vulnerabilities of networks and mitigation techniques, security of physical media, and security policies and
procedures. This course has no prerequisites.
C175 - Data Management - Foundations - This course introduces students to the concepts and terminology used in the field of data management.
Students will be introduced to Structured Query Language (SQL) and will learn how to use Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation
Language (DML) commands to define, retrieve, and manipulate data. This course covers differentiations of data—structured vs. unstructured and
quasi-structured (relational, hierarchical, XML, textual, visual, etc); it also covers aspects of data management (quality, policy, storage methodologies).
Foundational concepts of data security are included.
C179 - Business of IT - Applications - This course introduces IT students to information systems (IS). The course includes important topics related to
the management of information systems (MIS), such as system development and business continuity. The course also provides an overview of
management tools and issue tracking systems.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 247
C180 - Introduction to Psychology - In this course, students will develop an understanding of psychology and how it helps them better understand
others and themselves. Students will learn general theories about psychological development, the structure of the brain, and how psychologists study
behavior. They will gain an understanding of both normal and disordered psychological behaviors, as well as general applications of the science of
psychology in society (such as personality typing and counseling).
C182 - Introduction to IT - Introduction to IT examines information technology as a discipline and the various roles and functions of the IT department
as business support. Students are presented with various IT disciplines including systems and services, network and security, scripting and
programming, data management, and business of IT, with a survey of technologies in every area and how they relate to each other and to the
business.
C190 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological
research are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment.
Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment
to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C200 - Managing Organizations and Leading People - This course covers principles of effective management and leadership that maximize
organizational performance. The following topics are included: the role and functions of a manager, analysis of personal leadership styles, approaches
to self-awareness and self-assessment, and application of foundational leadership and management skills.
C201 - Business Acumen - The Business Acumen course introduces you to the operation of the business enterprise and the role of management in
directing the activities of the business. You will examine the roles of management in the context of business functions such as marketing, operations,
accounting, and finance.
C202 - Managing Human Capital - This course focuses on strategies and tools that managers use to maximize employee contribution and create
organizational excellence. You will learn talent management strategies to motivate and develop employees as well as best practices to manage
performance for added value.
C203 - Becoming an Effective Leader - This course explores major theories and approaches to leadership, leadership style evaluation, and personal
leadership development while focusing on motivation, development, and achievement of others. You will learn how to influence followers, manage
organizational culture, and enhance your effectiveness as a leader.
C204 - Management Communication - This course prepares students for the communication challenges in organizations. Topics examined include
theories and strategies of communication, persuasion, conflict management, and ethics that enhance communication to various audiences.
C205 - Leading Teams - This course helps students establish team objectives, align the team purpose with organizational goals, build credibility and
trust, and develop the talents of individuals to enhance team performance.
C206 - Ethical Leadership - This course examines the ethical issues and dilemmas managers face. This course provides a framework for analysis of
management-related ethical issues and decision-making action required for satisfactory resolution of these issues.
C207 - Data-Driven Decision Making - This course presents critical problem-solving methodologies, including field research and data collection
methods that enhance organizational performance. Topics include quantitative analysis, statistical and quality tools. You will improve your ability to use
data to make informed decisions.
C208 - Change Management and Innovation - This course provides an overview of change theories and innovation practices. This course will
emphasize the role of leadership in influencing and managing change in response to challenges and opportunities facing organizations.
C209 - Strategic Management - This course focuses on models and practices of strategic management including developing and implementing both
short- and long-term strategy and evaluating performance to achieve strategic goals and objectives.
C210 - Management and Leadership Capstone - This course is the culminating assessment of the MSML curriculum that provides an integrative
experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from previously completed
coursework and demonstrate an understanding of management and leadership development and practices.
C211 - Global Economics for Managers - This course examines how economic tools, techniques, and indicators can be used for solving organizational
problems related to competitiveness, productivity, and growth. You will explore the management implications of a variety of economic concepts and
effective strategies to make decisions within a global context.
C212 - Marketing - Marketing Fundamentals introduces students to principles of the marketing environment, social media, consumer behavior,
marketing research, and market segmentation. Students will also explore marketing strategies that are related to products and services, distribution
channels, promotions, sales, and pricing.
C213 - Accounting for Decision Makers - This course provides you with the accounting knowledge and skills to assess and manage a business. Topics
include the accounting cycle, financial statements, taxes, and budgeting. This course will improve students’ ability to understand reports and use
accounting information to plan and make sound business decisions.
C214 - Financial Management - This course covers practical approaches to analysis and decision-making in the administration of corporate funds,
including capital budgeting, working capital management, and cost of capital. Topics include financial planning, management of working capital,
analysis of investment opportunities, sources of long-term financing, government regulations, and global influences. This course will improve students’
ability to interpret financial statements and manage corporate finances.
C215 - Operations Management - This course focuses on the strategic importance of operations management to overall performance. This course also
emphasizes principles of supply chain management relevant to a variety of business operations ranging from manufacturing goods to retail services.
You will examine the various planning, control, and decision-making tools and techniques of the operations function.
C216 - MBA Capstone - MBA Capstone is the culminating course in the MBA program that provides an integrative experience with all competencies
and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from previously completed coursework and demonstrate an
understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This course promotes a meaningful connection between the academic
work and career experience.
C218 - MBA, Information Technology Management Capstone - MBA Information Technology Management Capstone is the culminating course in the
MBA ITM program that provides an integrative experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize
concepts from previously completed coursework and demonstrate an understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This
course promotes a meaningful connection between the academic work and career experience.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 248
C219 - MBA, Healthcare Management Capstone - MBA Healthcare Management Capstone is the culminating course in the MBA HCM program that
provides an integrative experience with all competencies and assessment topics throughout the program. Students synthesize concepts from
previously completed coursework and demonstrate an understanding of responsible practices for growing and running a business. This course
promotes a meaningful connection between the academic work and career experience.
C224 - Research Foundations - The Research Foundations course focuses on the essential concepts in educational research, including quantitative,
qualitative, mixed, and action research. This course also teaches students concepts about measurement and assessment, as well as strategies for
obtaining warranted research results.
C225 - Research Questions and Literature Review - The Research Questions and Literature Reviews course focuses on how to conduct a thorough
literature review that addresses and identifies important educational research topics, problems, and questions, and helps determine the appropriate
kind of research and data needed to answer one's research questions and hypotheses. Research Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
C226 - Research Design and Analysis - The Research Design and Analysis course focuses on applying strategies for effective design of empirical
research studies. Particular emphasis is placed on selecting or constructing the design that will provide the most valid results, analyzing the kind of
data that would be obtained, and making defensible interpretations and drawing appropriate conclusions based on the data. Research Questions and
Literature Review is a prerequisite for this course.
C227 - Research Proposals - Research Proposals focuses on planning and writing a well-organized and complete research proposal. The relationship
of the sections in a research proposal to the sections in a research report will be highlighted. Research Design and Analysis is a prerequisite for this
course.
C232 - Introduction to Human Resource Management - This course provides an introduction to the management of human resources, the function
within an organization that focuses on recruitment, management, and direction for the people who work in the organization. Students will be introduced
to topics such as strategic workforce planning and employment; compensation and benefits; training and development; employee and labor relations;
and occupational health, safety, and security.
C233 - Employment Law - This course reviews the legal and regulatory framework surrounding employment, including recruitment, termination, and
discrimination law. The course topics include employment-at-will, EEO, ADA, OSHA, and other laws affecting the workplace. This course covers how
to analyze current trends and issues in employment law and apply this knowledge to manage risk effectively in the employment relationship.
C234 - Workforce Planning: Recruitment and Selection - This course focuses on building a highly skilled workforce by using effective strategies and
tactics for recruiting, selecting, hiring, and retaining employees.
C236 - Compensation and Benefits - Compensation and Benefits develops competence in the design and implementation of compensation and
benefits systems in an organization. The total rewards perspective integrates tangible rewards (e.g., salary, bonuses) with employee benefits (e.g.,
health insurance, retirement plan) and intangible rewards (e.g., location, work environment). This perspective allows students to use all forms of
rewards fairly and effectively to enable job satisfaction and organizational performance. There are no prerequisites.
C237 - Taxation I - This course focuses on the taxation of individuals. It provides an overview of income taxes of both individuals and business entities
in order to enhance awareness of the complexities and sources of tax law and to measure and analyze the effect of various tax options. The course
will introduce taxation of sole proprietorships. Students will learn principles of individual taxation and how to develop effective personal tax strategies
for individuals. Students will also be introduced to tax research of complex taxation issues.
C266 - The Ocean Systems - This course investigates the complex ocean system by looking at the way its components—atmosphere, biosphere,
geosphere, hydrosphere—interact. Specific topics include the origins of Earth’s oceans and the early history of life; physical characteristics and
geologic processes of the ocean floor; chemistry of the water molecule; energy flow between air and water and how ocean surface currents and deep
circulation patterns affect weather and climate; marine biology and why ecosystems are an integral part of the ocean system; the effects of human
activity; and the role of professional educators in teaching about ocean systems.
C267 - Climate Change - This course explores the science of climate change and covers how the climate system works; what factors cause climate to
change across different time scales and how those factors interact; how climate has changed in the past; how scientists use models, observations, and
theory to make predictions about future climate; and the possible consequences of climate change for our planet. The course explores evidence for
changes in ocean temperature, sea level, and acidity due to global warming. It covers how climate change today is different from past climate cycles
and how satellites and other technologies are revealing the global signals of a changing climate. Finally, the course looks at the connection between
human activity and the current warming trend and considers some of the potential social, economic, and environmental consequences of climate
change.
C268 - Spreadsheets - The Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to analyze business problems. Students
will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business/accounting applications (e.g., using essential spreadsheet
functions, formulas, charts, etc.)
C273 - Introduction to Sociology - This course teaches students to think like sociologists, or, in other words, to see and understand the hidden rules, or
norms, by which people live, and how they free or restrain behavior. Students will learn about socializing institutions, such as schools and families, as
well as workplace organizations and governments. Participants will also learn how people deviate from the rules by challenging norms and how such
behavior may result in social change, either on a large scale or within small groups.
C277 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of operations;
ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets of real
numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, and trees and networks. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C278 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include: real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C360 - Teacher Work Sample in English Language Learning - The Teacher Work Sample is a culmination of the wide variety of skills learned during
your time in the Teachers College at WGU. In order to be a competent and independent classroom teacher, you will showcase a collection of your
content, planning, instructional, and reflective skills in this professional assessment.
C363 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply differential
calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include functions, limits, continuity,
differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, sum, product, and quotient rules
applied to polynomial, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; implicit differentiation, position, velocity, and acceleration; optimization,
related rates, curve sketching, and L'Hopital's rule. Precalculus is a prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 249
C389 - Science, Technology, and Society - Science, Technology, and Society explores the ways in which science influences and is influenced by
society and technology. A humanistic and social endeavor, science serves the needs of ever-changing societies by providing methods for observing,
questioning, discovering, and communicating information about the physical and natural world. This course prepares educators to explain the nature
and history of science, the various applications of science, and the scientific and engineering processes used to conduct investigations, make
decisions, and solve problems. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C455 - English Composition I - English Composition I introduces candidates to the types of writing and thinking that are valued in college and beyond.
Candidates will practice writing in several genres with emphasis placed on writing and revising academic arguments. Instruction and exercises in
grammar, mechanics, research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as necessary.
Composition I is a foundational course designed to help candidates prepare for success at the college level. There are no prerequisites for English
Composition I.
C456 - English Composition II - English Composition II introduces candidates to the types of research and writing that are valued in college and
beyond. Candidates will practice writing, with emphasis placed on research, writing, and revising an academic argument. Instruction and exercises in
grammar, mechanics, research documentation, and style are paired with each module so that writers can practice these skills as necessary.
Composition II is a foundational course designed to help candidates prepare for success at the college level. Composition I is the prerequisite for
Composition II.
C458 - Health, Fitness, and Wellness - Health, Fitness, and Wellness focuses on the importance and foundations of good health and physical
fitness—particularly for children and adolescents—addressing health, nutrition, fitness, and substance use and abuse.
C464 - Introduction to Communication - This introductory communication course allows candidates to become familiar with the fundamental
communication theories and practices necessary to engage in healthy professional and personal relationships. Candidates will survey human
communication on multiple levels and critically apply the theoretical grounding of the course to interpersonal, intercultural, small group, and public
presentational contexts. The course also encourages candidates to consider the influence of language, perception, culture, and media on their daily
communicative interactions. In addition to theory, candidates will engage in the application of effective communication skills through systematically
preparing and delivering an oral presentation. By practicing these fundamental skills in human communication, candidates become more competent
communicators as they develop more flexible, useful, and discriminatory communicative practices in a variety of contexts. Note: There are references
within this video to Taskstream. If Taskstream is not part of your student experience, please disregard, and locate your task(s) within your course.
C483 - Principles of Management - Principles of Management provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of management and its
context within the business environment. Students of this course build on previously mastered competencies by taking a more in-depth look at
management as a discipline and how it differs from leadership while further exploring the importance of communication within business. This course
provides students with a business generalist overview in the areas of strategic planning, total quality, entrepreneurship, conflict and change, human
resource management, diversity, and organizational structure.
C484 - Organizational Behavior and Leadership - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse
business environments. The course requires students to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management
strategies in a series of scenario-based problems.
C494 - Advanced Standing for RN License - Advanced Standing for RN License
C498 - MS, Information Technology Management Capstone - MSITM Capstone course challenges students to demonstrate mastery of all the MSITM
program outcomes. The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project.
C612 - Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and integrate the mathematics
content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful secondary mathematics teachers. A high level of mathematical reasoning skills and the
ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, Pre-
Calculus, Calculus I, and Calculus II. Linear Algebra, and Calculus III are recommended.
C613 - Middle School Mathematics: Content Knowledge - Mathematics: Middle School Content Knowledge is designed to help candidates refine and
integrate the mathematics content knowledge and skills necessary to become successful middle school mathematics teachers. A high level of
mathematical reasoning skills and the ability to solve problems are necessary to complete this course. Prerequisites for this course are College
Geometry, Probability and Statistics I, and Pre-Calculus.
C614 - Biology: Content Knowledge - This comprehensive course examines a student’s conceptual understanding of a broad range of biology topics.
High school biology teachers must help students make connections between isolated topics. This course starts with macromolecules that make up
cellular components and continues with understanding the many cellular processes that allow life to exist. Connections are then made between
genetics and evolution. Classification of organisms leads into plant and animal development that study the organ systems and their role in maintaining
homeostasis. The course finishes by studying ecology and the effect humans have on the environment.
C615 - Physics: Content Knowledge - Physics: Content Knowledge covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary physics teacher is
expected to know and understand. Topics include nature and impact of science and engineering, principle and models of matter and energy,
mechanics, electricity and magnetism, waves, and science teaching and pedagogy.
C616 - Middle School Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the content knowledge that a middle-level science teacher is expected to
know and understand. Topics include scientific methodologies, history of science, basic science principles, physical sciences, life sciences, earth and
space sciences, and the role of science and technology and their impact on society.
C617 - Chemistry: Content Knowledge - Chemistry: Content Knowledge provides advanced instruction in the main areas of chemistry for which
secondary chemistry teachers are expected to demonstrate competency. Topics include matter and energy, thermochemistry, structure, bonding,
reactivity, biochemistry and organic chemistry, solutions, the nature of science and technology, mathematics, and laboratory procedures.
C618 - Earth Science: Content Knowledge - This course covers the advanced content knowledge that a secondary earth science teacher is expected
to know and understand. Topics include basic scientific principles of earth and space sciences, tectonics and internal earth processes, earth materials
and surface processes, history of the Earth and its life-forms, Earth's atmosphere and hydrosphere, and astronomy.
C625 - Biochemistry - Biochemistry covers the structure and function of the four major polymers produced by living organisms. These include nucleic
acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. This course focuses on application and the underlying biochemistry in order to grasp how it is applied. This
course will help students gain an introductory understanding of the chemicals and reactions that sustain life. Students will see the importance of this
subject matter to health.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 250
C635 - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone - MA, Mathematics Education (K-6) Capstone Written Project takes the student through the steps
of planning and conducting research on a topic or issue related to the students' practice setting. The result is expected to be a significant piece of
research, culminating in a written research report, including sections describing a literature review, methodology, and detailed analysis and reporting of
results. Prerequisite Courses: Research Foundations (C224), Research Questions and Literature Review (C225), Research Design and Analysis
(C226), and Research Proposals (C227) or permission of a faculty manager. Additionally, students wishing to add the Capstone with fewer than eight
weeks remaining in the term must receive permission of the faculty manager.
C647 - Trigonometry and Precalculus - Trigonometry and Precalculus covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply trigonometry, complex
numbers, systems of equations, vectors and matrices, and sequences and series, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life
problems. Topics include degrees; radians and arcs; reference angles and right triangle trigonometry; applying, graphing and transforming
trigonometric functions and their inverses; solving trigonometric equations; using and proving trigonometric identities; geometric, rectangular, and polar
approaches to complex numbers; DeMoivre's Theorem; systems of linear equations and matrix-vector equations; systems of nonlinear equations;
systems of inequalities; and arithmetic and geometric sequences and series. College Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
C650 - Geology I: Physical - Geology I: Physical provides undergraduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement in secondary science
education with an introduction to minerals and rocks, the physical features of the Earth, and the internal and surface processes that shape those
features. This course has no prerequisites.
C653 - Heredity and Genetics - Heredity and Genetics is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or
students earning their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the
function of molecular genetics. Topics include Mendelian and non-Mendelian inheritance and population genetics. This course has no prerequisites.
C655 - Zoology - Zoology provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or their MA degree in secondary science education with
an introduction to the field of zoology. Zoology includes the study of major animal phyla emphasizing characteristics, variations in anatomy, life cycles,
adaptations, and relationships among the animal kingdom. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C657 - Calculus III - Calculus III is the study of calculus conducted in three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers the knowledge and skills necessary
to apply calculus of multiple variables while using the appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include: infinite series and
convergence tests (integral, comparison, ratio, root, and alternating), power series,taylor polynomials, vectors, lines and planes in three dimensions,
dot and cross products, multivariable functions, limits, and continuity, partial derivatives, directional derivatives, gradients, tangent planes, normal lines,
and extreme values. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
C659 - Conceptual Physics - Conceptual Physics provides a broad, conceptual overview of the main principles of physics, including mechanics,
thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and electricity and magnetism. Problem-solving activities and laboratory experiments provide
students with opportunities to apply these main principles, creating a strong foundation for future studies in physics. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
C670 - Concepts in Science - Concepts in Science for graduates provides already-licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
science education with an introduction to essential science themes present within and across all science disciplines, including chemistry, physics,
biology, and the geosciences. These themes include comprehending the magnitude of the physical and natural world, analyzing and converting
measurements, understanding the basic nature and behavior of matter and energy, examining atomic structure, identifying and naming basic types of
chemical bonds, and analyzing and interpreting scientific data. Concepts in Science provides a solid foundation for future, in-depth, scientific studies
and should be taken prior to any other science content course. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C672 - General Chemistry I with Lab - General Chemistry I with Lab for graduates provides an introduction to the field of chemistry to already-licensed
teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in secondary chemistry. This course provides students with opportunities to examine the
electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas, determine the structure of molecules,
balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the study of matter and the application of
laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science is a prerequisite for this course.
C673 - General Chemistry II with Lab - General Chemistry II with Lab for graduates continues the study of general chemistry for already-licensed
teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in secondary chemistry. Building on the topics covered in General Chemistry I, General
Chemistry II examines the behavior of gases and solutions, reaction rates and equilibrium, acids and bases, and oxidation-reduction reactions. Also,
this course provides an introduction to three subdisciplines of chemistry: organic chemistry, biochemistry, and nuclear chemistry. Laboratory
experiences reinforce the essential skills required for conducting successful scientific investigations. C672: General Chemistry I for graduates is a
prerequisite for this course.
C683 - Natural Science Lab - This course provides students an introduction to using the scientific method and engaging in scientific research to reach
conclusions about the natural world. Students will design and carry out an experiment to investigate a hypothesis by gathering quantitative data. They
will also research a specific ecosystem using academic sources and draw conclusions from their findings.
C715 - Organizational Behavior - Organizational Behavior and Leadership explores how to lead and manage effectively in diverse business
environments. Students are asked to demonstrate the ability to apply organizational leadership theories and management strategies in a series of
scenario-based problems.
C716 - Business Communication - Business Communication is a survey course of communication skills needed in the business environment. Course
content includes writing messages, reports, and résumés and delivering oral presentations. The course emphasizes communication processes, writing
skills, message types, and presentation of data. The development of these skills is integrated with the use of technology.
C717 - Business Ethics - Business Ethics is designed to enable students to identify the ethical and socially responsible courses of action available
through the exploration of various scenarios in business. Students will also learn to develop appropriate ethics guidelines for a business. This course
has no prerequisites.
C720 - Operations and Supply Chain Management - Operations and Supply Chain Management provides a streamlined introduction to how
organizations efficiently produce goods and services, determine supply chain management strategies, and measure performance. Emphasis is placed
on integrative topics essential for managers in all disciplines, such as supply chain management, product development, and capacity planning. This
course guides students in analyzing processes, managing quality for both services and products, and measuring performance while creating value
along the supply chain in a global environment. Topics include forecasting, product and service design, process design and location analysis, capacity
planning, management of quality and quality control, inventory management, scheduling, supply chain management, and performance measurement.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 251
C721 - Change Management - Change Management provides an understanding of change and an overview of successfully managing change using
various methods and tools. Emphasizing change theories and various best practices, this course covers how to recognize and implement change
using an array of other effective strategies, including those related to innovation and leadership. Other topics include approaches to change,
diagnosing and planning for change, implementing change, and sustaining change.
C722 - Project Management - Project Management prepares you to manage projects from start to finish within any organization structure. The course
represents a view into different project-management methods and delves into topics such as project profiling and phases, constraints, building the
project team, scheduling, and risk. You will be able to grasp the full scope of projects you may work with on in the future, and apply proper
management approaches to complete a project. The course features practice in each of the project phases as you learn how to strategically apply
project-management tools and techniques to help organizations achieve their goals.
C723 - Quantitative Analysis For Business - Quantitative Analysis for Business explores various decision-making models, including expected value
models, linear programming models, and inventory models. This course helps student learn to analyze data by using a variety of analytic tools and
techniques to make better business decisions. In addition, it covers developing project schedules using the Critical Path Method. Other topics include
calculating and evaluating formulas, measures of uncertainty, crash costs, and visual representation of decision-making models using electronic
spreadsheets and graphs. This course has no prerequisites.
C724 - Information Systems Management - Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of information systems applicable
to business. The course explores the importance of viewing information technology (IT) as an organizational resource that must be managed, so that it
supports or enables organizational strategy.
C737 - Evolution - This course addresses why evolution is the fundamental concept that underlies all life sciences and how it contributes to advances
in medicine, public health, and conservation. This course helps participants gain a firm understanding of the basic mechanisms of evolution including
the process of speciation and how these systems have given rise to the great diversity of life in the world today. This course also explore how new
ideas, discoveries, and technologies are modifying prior evolutionary concepts. Ultimately, the course will explain how evolution works and how we
know what we know.
C739 - Space, Time and Motion - This course begins with a quick tour of discovery and exploration in physics, from the ancient Greek philosophers on
to Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton, and Albert Einstein. Einstein’s work then serves as the departure point for a detailed look at the properties of motion,
time, space, matter, and energy. The course considers Einstein’s special theory of relativity, his photon hypothesis, wave-particle duality, his general
theory of relativity and its implications for astrophysics and cosmology, as well as his three-decade quest for a unified field theory. It also looks at
Einstein as a social and political figure and his contributions as a social and political force. Scientist-authored essays, online interaction, videos, and
web resources enable learners to trace this historic path of discovery and explore implications of technology for society, energy production in stars,
black holes, the Big Bang, and the role of the scientist in modern society.
C769 - IT Capstone Written Project - The capstone project consists of a technical work proposal, the proposal’s implementation, and a post-
implementation report that describes the graduate’s experience in developing and implementing the capstone project. The capstone project should be
presented and approved by the course instructor in relation to the graduate’s technical emphasis.
C773 - User Interface Design - This course covers tools and techniques employed in user interface design, including web and mobile applications.
Concepts of clarity, usability, and detectability are included in this course, as well as other design elements such as color schemes, typography, and
layout. Techniques like wireframing, usability testing, and SEO optimization are also covered.
C777 - Web Development Applications - This course builds upon a student's manual coding skills by teaching how to develop web documents and
pages using the web development trifecta: Hypertext Markup Language version 5 (HTML5), Cascading Style Sheets version 3 (CSS3), and JavaScript.
Students will utilize the skills learned in this course to create web documents and pages that easily adapt to display on both traditional and mobile
devices. In addition, students will learn techniques for code validation and testing, form creation, inline form field validation, and mobile design for
browsers and apps, including Responsive Web Design (RWD).
C783 - Project Management - Project Management is a thorough exploration of the inputs, tools, techniques, and outputs across the Project
Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK). The essential concepts and practical scenarios included enable students to build the competencies of an
effective project manager. There is no prerequisite for this course.
C784 - Applied Healthcare Statistics - Applied Healthcare Probability and Statistics is designed to help develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic mathematics, introductory algebra, and statistics and probability. These concepts include basic arithmetic with fractions and signed
numbers; introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical data and probability are now
commonplace in the healthcare field. This course will help candidates make informed decisions about which studies and results are valid, which are
not, and how those results affect your decisions. This course will give candidates background in what constitutes sound research design and how to
appropriately model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, this course guides candidates in calculating simple probabilities based on events
which occur in the healthcare profession. This course will prepare candidates for studies at WGU, as well as in the healthcare profession.
C790 - Foundations in Nursing Informatics - This course addresses the integration of technology to improve and support nursing practice. It provides
nurses with a foundational understanding of nursing informatics theory, practice, and applications. Topics include the role of nursing in informatics; use
of computer technology for clinical documentation, communication, and workflows; problem identification; project implementation; and best practices.
C792 - Data Modeling and Database Management Systems - This graduate course is designed to engage the student in planning, analyzing, and
designing a relational database management system (DBMS) for use by nurse administrators, clinicians, educators, and informaticists. This
experience will provide the knowledge needed to advocate for nursing informatics needs within the field of healthcare.
C797 - Data Science and Analytics - This course addresses the interdisciplinary and emerging field of data science in healthcare. Candidates learn to
combine tools and techniques from statistics, computer science, data visualization, and the social sciences to solve problems using data. Topics
include data analysis; database management; inferential and descriptive statistics; statistical inference; and process improvement.
C798 - Informatics System Analysis and Design - In Informatics System Analysis and Design, a broad understanding of data systems is covered to
build upon the Foundations in Nursing Informatics course. The importance of effective interoperability, functionality, data access, and user satisfaction
are addressed. The student will be analyzing reports and integrating federal regulations, research principles, and principles of environmental health in
the construction of a real-world systems analysis and design project. This course will be directly applicable to healthcare settings as electronic records
management has become compulsory for healthcare providers. All of the information in this course will be directly tied to the delivery of quality patient
care and patient safety. Foundations in Nursing Informatics is recommended as a prerequisite.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 252
C801 - Health Information Law and Regulations - Health Information Law and Regulations prepares students to manage health information in
compliance with legal guidelines and teaches how to respond to questions and challenges when legal issues occur. This course presents the types of
situations occurring in health information management that could result in ethical dilemmas and establishes a foundation for work based on legal and
ethical guidelines.
C802 - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management - Foundations in Healthcare Information Management applies theories from business, IT,
management, medicine, and consumer-centered healthcare skills. Students will learn to evaluate and analyze health information systems for
implementation in health information management. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C803 - Data Analytics and Information Governance - Data Analytics and Information Governance explores the structure, methods, and approaches for
using health information in the healthcare industry. By focusing on quality data collection, analytics, and industry regulations, students will examine
tools that ensure quality data collection as well as to use data to improve quality of care. This course has no prerequisites.
C804 - Medical Terminology - Medical Terminology focuses on the basic components of medical terminology and how terminology is used when
discussing various body structures and systems. Proper use of medical terminology is critical for accurate and clear communication among medical
staff, health professionals, and patients. In addition to the systems of the body, this course will discuss immunity, infections, mental health, and cancer.
C805 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is an overview of the pathology and treatment of diseases in the human body and its systems. This course
will explain the processes in the body that result in the signs and symptoms of disease, as well as therapeutic procedures in managing or curing the
disease. The content draws on a knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand how diseases manifest themselves and how they affect the
body.
C807 - Healthcare Compliance - Healthcare Compliance examines the role of the coding professional within healthcare information management. The
course covers compliance plans, issues that arise with noncompliance, and management of internal and external audits.
C808 - Classification Systems - Classification Systems provides a comprehensive approach to learning about medical coding classification, coding
audits, and quality standards. Candidates will be exposed to electronic health record systems and leadership principles as they relate to management
of ICD and CPT codes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C810 - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management - Foundations in Healthcare Data Management introduces students to the concepts and
terminology used in health data and health information management. This course teaches students how to apply data management and governance
principles in the healthcare environment. The student will learn about electronic health records (EHR), legal considerations, information governance,
data management, health information management (HIM), and secondary data sources. In addition to the e-text and numerous additional articles and
video resources, the student will engage with case studies and knowledge checks to assist with learning. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C811 - Healthcare Financial Resource Management - Healthcare Financial Resource Management examines financial practices within healthcare
industries to promote effective management at department and organization levels. Focusing on financial processes associated with facility operations
in the healthcare field, this course will analyze the impact of strategic financial planning and regulatory control processes. This course has no
prerequisites.
C812 - Healthcare Reimbursement - Healthcare Reimbursement explores financial practices within the healthcare industry as they relate to
reimbursement policies. This course identifies how reimbursement systems impact the revenue cycle and a health information manager's role. This
course has no prerequisites.
C813 - Healthcare Statistics and Research - Healthcare Statistics and Research explores the use of statistical data to support process improvement
through health information research. Health information management (HIM) professionals use information systems to gather, analyze, and present
data in response to administrative and clinical needs. This course has no prerequisites.
C815 - Quality and Performance Management and Methods - Quality and Performance Management and Methods examines quality initiatives within
healthcare. Quality issues cover human resource management, employee performance, and patient safety. This course focuses on quality
improvement initiatives and performance improvement with the health information management perspective.
C816 - Healthcare System Applications - Healthcare System Applications introduces students to information systems. This course includes important
topics related to management of information systems (MIS), such as system development and business continuity. The course also provides an
overview of management tools and issue tracking systems. This course has no prerequisites.
C833 - Chemistry with Lab - Chemistry with Lab for graduates provides already licensed teachers seeking an additional license or endorsement in
middle grades science or secondary physics, biological science, or earth science with an introduction to the field of chemistry. Designed for those not
majoring in chemistry education, this course highlights how the topics covered can be applied within various branches of science. This course provides
students with opportunities to examine the electronic structure of atoms, study periodic trends, name chemical compounds, write chemical formulas,
determine the structure of molecules, balance chemical reactions, and discover the changing states of matter. Laboratory experiences facilitate the
study of matter and the application of laboratory safety and maintenance procedures. Concepts in Science for graduates is a prerequisite for this
course.
C841 - Legal Issues in Information Security - Security information professionals have the role and responsibility for knowing and applying ethical and
legal principles and processes that define specific needs and demands to assure data integrity within an organization. This course addresses the laws,
regulations, authorities, and directives that inform the development of operational policies, best practices, and training to assure legal compliance and
to minimize internal and external threats. Students analyze legal constraints and liability concerns that threaten information security within an
organization and develop disaster recovery plans to assure business continuity.
C843 - Managing Information Security - This course expands on fundamentals of information security by providing an in-depth analysis of the
relationship between an information security program and broader business goals and objectives. Students develop knowledge and experience in the
development and management of an information security program essential to ongoing education, career progression, and value delivery to
enterprises. Students apply best practices to develop an information security governance framework, analyze mitigation in the context of compliance
requirements, align security programs with security strategies and best practices, and recommend procedures for managing security strategies that
minimize risk to an organization.
C844 - Emerging Technologies in Cybersecurity - The continual evolution of technology means that cybersecurity professionals must be able to
analyze and evaluate new technologies in information security such as wireless, mobile, and internet technologies. Students review the adoption
process that prepares an organization for the risks and challenges of implementing new technologies. This course focuses on comparison of evolving
technologies to address the security requirements of an organization. Students learn underlying principles critical to the operation of secure networks
and adoption of new technologies.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 253
C845 - Information Systems Security - IT security professionals must be prepared for the operational demands and responsibilities of security
practitioners including authentication, security testing, intrusion detection and prevention, incident response and recovery, attacks and
countermeasures, cryptography, and malicious code countermeasures. This course provides a comprehensive, up-to-date global body of knowledge
that ensures students have the right information, security knowledge, and skills to be successful in IT operational roles to mitigate security concerns
and guard against the impact of malicious activity. Students demonstrate how to manage and restrict access control systems; administer policies,
procedures, and guidelines that are ethical and compliant with laws and regulations; implement risk management and incident handling processes;
execute cryptographic systems to protect data; manage network security; and analyze common attack vectors and countermeasures to assure
information integrity and confidentiality in various systems. This course prepares students for the Systems Security Certified Practitioner (ISC2 SSCP)
certification exam.
C850 - Emerging Technologies - The Emerging Technologies course examines emerging technologies, identifies the benefits and drawbacks of
technology adoption, and provides students with a process to evaluate technologies. The course will examine three technologies that may have an
impact on Information Technology services in the coming years.
C854 - Nursing Informatics Field Experience - Nursing Informatics Field Experience requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences while
engaging in authentic activities relevant to the role of an informatics nurse. To help students develop competency in this area, this course gives
students opportunities to apply methods and solutions to support clinical decisions. They will be prepared to improve health outcomes by analyzing an
existing health information system to determine the need for a system optimization that will improve an organization’s ability to measure and report
Triple Aim objectives. All MSN Core and Specialty courses, with the exclusion of the Capstone course, are prerequisites to this course and must be
completed before taking this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
C855 - Nursing Informatics Capstone - Nursing Informatics Capstone requires students to complete clinical/practice experiences (CPE) and finalize
their system optimization proposal paper, which addresses the Institute of Health’s Triple Aim initiative. During this course, students will plan the final
phase of their system development life cycle (SDLC), which consists of proposing the processes, methods, and tasks for monitoring, maintaining,
supporting, and evaluating their system optimization. The knowledge and skills that students acquire during the CPE in this course will prepare them to
complete their system optimization proposal paper. This is a culminating course that provides students an opportunity to demonstrate the
competencies acquired during this program. All MSN Core and Specialty courses, including the Field Experience course, are prerequisites to this
course and must be completed before taking this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
C867 - Scripting and Programming - Applications - In this undergraduate course students explore the various aspects of the C++ programming
language by examining its syntax, the development environment, and tools and techniques to solve some real-world problems.
C870 - Human Anatomy and Physiology - This course examines the structures and functions of the human body and covers anatomical terminology,
cells and tissues, and organ systems. Students will study the healthy state of the organ systems of the human body, including the digestive, skeletal,
sensory, respiratory, reproductive, nervous, muscular, cardiovascular, lymphatic, integumentary, endocrine, and renal systems. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
C871 - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Science Education Teacher Performance Assessment contains a
comprehensive, original, research-based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the candidate’s
ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning process.
The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting of seven
components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision-making, 6) analysis of student
learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C874 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-12) Teacher Performance Assessment
contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting
of seven components: 1) Contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of
student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C878 - Mathematical Modeling and Applications - Mathematical Modeling and Applications applies mathematics, such as differential equations,
discrete structures, and statistics to formulate models and solve real-world problems. This course emphasizes improving students’ critical thinking to
help them understand the process and application of mathematical modeling. Probability and Statistics II and Calculus II are prerequisites.
C880 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual underpinnings,
common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and assess the learning
of algebra. Secondary teachers should have an understanding of the following: algebra as an extension of number, operation, and quantity; various
ideas of equivalence as it pertains to algebraic structures; patterns of change as covariation between quantities; connections between representations
(tables, graphs, equations, geometric models, context); and the historical development of content and perspectives from diverse cultures. In particular,
the course focuses on deeper understanding of rational numbers, ratios and proportions, meaning and use of variables, functions (e.g., exponential,
logarithmic, polynomials, rational, quadratic), and inverses. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C882 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores important conceptual
underpinnings, common student misconceptions and ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices to support and assess
the learning of geometry. Students in this course will develop a deep understanding of constructions and transformations, congruence and similarity,
analytic geometry, solid geometry, conics, trigonometry, and the historical development of content. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C884 - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics and Probability for Secondary Mathematics Teaching explores
important conceptual underpinnings, common misconceptions and students’ ways of thinking, appropriate use of technology, and instructional practices
to support and assess the learning of statistics and probability. Secondary teachers should have a deep understanding of summarizing and
representing data, study design and sampling, probability, testing claims and drawing conclusions, and the historical development of content and
perspectives from diverse cultures. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
C886 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus examines rigorous reconsideration and proofs involving calculus. Topics include real-number
systems, sequences, limits, continuity, differentiation, and integration. This course emphasizes students’ ability to apply critical thinking to concepts to
analyze the connections between definitions and properties. Calculus III and Linear Algebra are prerequisites.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 254
C887 - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance Assessment - MA, Mathematics Education (5-9) Teacher Performance Assessment
contains a comprehensive, original, research based curriculum unit designed to meet an identified educational need. It provides direct evidence of the
candidate’s ability to design and implement a multi-week, standards-based unit of instruction, assess student learning, and then reflect on the learning
process. The WGU Teacher Performance Assessment requires students to plan and teach a multi-week standards-based instructional unit consisting
of seven components: 1) contextual factors, 2) learning goals, 3) assessment, 4) design for instruction, 5) instructional decision making, 6) analysis of
student learning, and 7) self-evaluation and reflection.
C889 - Molecular and Cellular Biology - Molecular and Cellular Biology provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or to
earn their MA degree in secondary science education with an introduction to the area of molecular and cellular biology. This course examines the cell
as an organism emphasizing molecular basis of cell structure and functions of biological macromolecules, subcellular organelles, intracellular
transport, cell division, and biological reactions. A prerequisite for this course is Introduction to Biology.
C891 - Ecology and Environmental Science - Ecology and Environmental Science is an introductory course for graduate students seeking initial
licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or middle grade science education. The course explores the relationships
between organisms and their environment, including population ecology, communities, adaptations, distributions, interactions, and the environmental
factors controlling these relationships. This course has no prerequisites.
C893 - Geology II: Earth Systems - Geology II: Earth Systems provides graduate students seeking licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA
degree in secondary science education with an examination of the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere and the dynamic equilibrium
of these systems over geologic time. This course also examines the history of Earth and its lifeforms, with an emphasis in meteorology. A prerequisite
for this course is Geology I: Physical.
C895 - Astronomy - Astronomy provides graduate students seeking initial licensure or endorsement and/or to earn their MA degree in secondary or
middle grade science education with essential knowledge of astronomy. This course explores Western history and basic physics of astronomy; phases
of the moon and seasons; composition and properties of solar system bodies; stellar evolution and remnants; properties and scale of objects and
distances within the universe; and introductory cosmology. A prerequisite for this course is General Physics.
C907 - Introduction to Biology - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. This course explores the overarching theories of
life from biological research as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the
environment. Key concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the
environment to maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
C908 - Integrated Physical Sciences - This course provides students with an overview of the basic principles and unifying ideas of the physical
sciences: physics, chemistry, and Earth sciences. Course materials focus on scientific reasoning and practical and everyday applications of physical
science concepts to help students integrate conceptual knowledge with practical skills.
C912 - College Algebra - This course provides further application and analysis of algebraic concepts and functions through mathematical modeling of
real-world situations. Topics include real numbers, algebraic expressions, equations and inequalities, graphs and functions, polynomial and rational
functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, and systems of linear equations.
C918 - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments - Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators in Diverse Environments examines the
multidimensional roles of a contemporary academic nurse educator. This course explores the roles and responsibilities of the nurse educator as a
teacher, leader, change agent, and curriculum innovator. Students will also examine the importance of personal and professional development by
developing strategies that promote academic integrity, cultural sensitivity, social justice, and ethical/legal values in diverse environments. The course
emphasizes the responsibility of nurse educators to utilize communication, collaboration, and leadership in mitigating challenges in academic nursing
education.
C919 - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning - Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning explores how the nurse
educator will incorporate authentic experiences into the creation of course plans that facilitate scholarly inquiry, collaboration, and knowledge
acquisition in varied educational environments. Emphasis is placed on innovative, transformational, and experiential teaching and learning strategies
to facilitate student development of professional, context-based nursing principles, knowledge, skills, and behavior. Evolving Roles of Nurse Educators
in Diverse Environments is a prerequisite to this course.
C920 - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing Education - Contemporary Curriculum Design and Development in Nursing
Education analyzes the concepts of creating curriculum based on national nursing accreditation standards and instructional design best practices.
Nurse educator students will create course content that supports learning in diverse, real-world environments where nurse educators facilitate learning.
Instructional design strategies for delivering course content will reflect the mission of academic institution programs, contemporary trends in nursing
education, and the needs of key stakeholders in nursing education and practice. Facilitation of Context-Based Student-Centered Learning is a
prerequisite to this course.
C921 - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student Learning - Assessment and Evaluation Strategies for Measuring Student
Learning addresses the academic nurse educator's role in the design, development, implementation, and evaluation of student achievement outcomes
in nursing education programs. This course requires students to integrate best practices from nursing theory and theories of learning to assess student
learning in diverse educational settings. Topics include validity, reliability, and practicality of assessments, interpreting item difficulty and discrimination
test results, and analyzing student achievement and learning outcomes data. This course has no prerequisites.
C922 - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing Education - Emerging Trends and Challenges in 21st Century Nursing Education
analyzes the emerging trends, technologies, and challenges that academic nurse educators encounter when facilitating learning in diverse healthcare
settings. Students will focus on the necessity of interprofessional collaboration and the barriers and facilitators to overcoming the challenges
associated with teaching and learning in nursing. Topics include the impact of emerging technology, challenges in nursing practice, and the role of the
academic nurse educator as a scholar and a nursing education policy advocate. This course has no prerequisites.
C926 - Earth: Inside and Out - Earth: Inside and Out explores the ways in which our dynamic planet evolved, and the processes and systems that
continue to shape it. Though the geologic record is incredibly ancient, it has only been studied intensely since the end of the 19th century. Since then,
research in fields such as geologic time, plate tectonics, climate change, exploration of the deep-sea floor, and the inner earth have vastly increased
our understanding of geological processes.
C927 - Managing Technology Operations and Innovation - Managing Technical Operations and Innovations explores the importance of innovation in
the processes of operations management and business competitiveness. From the formulation of tactical operations plans from strategic objectives, IT
executives need to create partnerships to drive innovation within an organization. This course provides students with the practical knowledge and
understanding of operations management concepts, business models, methods, tools, applications and best practices used by successful
organizations to improve their operations. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 255
C928 - Financial Management for IT Professionals - Financial Management for IT Professionals develops learners’ skills in financial management,
budgeting, and procurement. This course teaches how to leverage financial know-how to improve workplace decision-making. This course also
provides learners with the knowledge and skills necessary to spend money on the right projects and right equipment, while aligning operating budgets
with strategic initiatives. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C929 - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy - IT Sourcing and Development in a Global Economy examines the practice of sourcing
and developing global IT projects from a management perspective. In today’s organizations, leaders look for efficient and effective ways to deliver
goods and services. This course will allow students to explore the strategic, operational, tactical, and security-related impacts on the organization of
sourcing and supporting a global IT project. Students will cultivate a deep understanding of the documents, skills, and stakeholders needed for any
given project and develop the ability to leverage these elements to achieve success. This course will also explore the ethical, cultural, and regulatory
considerations surrounding sourcing and managing IT projects in a global space. There are no prerequisites for this course.
C946 - Nursing Education Field Experience - The Nursing Education Field Experience provides the academic nurse educator student an opportunity to
work collaboratively with academic mentors and interprofessional stakeholders to analyze the need-gap for a curriculum change, innovation, or
improvement. Based on the identified need-gap, the graduate student will design and develop a course that reflects evidence-based instructional
design and assessment principles and practices. This course prepares students for the role of an Academic Nurse Educator, as an agent for change
and quality improvement in nursing education.
C947 - Nursing Education Capstone - The Nursing Education Capstone course provides the Nurse Educator student an opportunity to apply previous
course work towards the completion of an evidence-based curriculum proposal project. During this course students will build on previous work during
their Nursing Education Field Experience course by planning the implementation and evaluation phases of their proposed curriculum change. The
capstone project represents a synthesis of competencies across the Master of Science in Nursing—Nursing Education degree program, which
prepares them to lead, manage, and transform nursing education in diverse and complex settings. This course is eligible for an in-progress grade.
Please see the grading scale policy for more information.
C948 - Technical Communication - Technical Communication examines communication types and strategies that information technology executives
will use to communicate effectively within an organization. As leaders, IT executives frequently contribute to business goals by designing and
communicating specialized information in a variety of media to customers, clients, and other departments. In this course, students learn to
communicate accurately, effectively, and ethically to a variety of audiences. Students choose, design, and deliver the communication product and
assess the effectiveness to improve future communication. This course has no prerequisites.
C949 - Data Structures and Algorithms I - Data Structures and Algorithms I covers the fundamentals of dynamic data structures, such as bags, lists,
stacks, queues, trees, and hash tables with their associated algorithms. This course discusses object-oriented design and abstract data types as
design paradigms. The course emphasizes problem-solving and techniques for designing efficient, maintainable software applications. Students will
implement simple applications using the techniques learned.
C950 - Data Structures and Algorithms II - Data Structures and Algorithms II explores the analysis and implementation of high-performance data
structures and supporting algorithms, including graphs, hashing, self-adjusting data structures, set representations, and dynamic programming. The
course also introduces students to NP-complete problems. The course discusses how to use Python techniques to implement software solutions for
problems of memory management and data compression. This course has two prerequisites: Data Structures and Algorithms I and Discrete Math II.
C952 - Computer Architecture - Computer Architecture introduces students to concepts and characteristics of organization and architecture applied to
modern computer systems including performance, processor, memory, input/output, and multiprocessors to optimize system design, performance, and
efficiency.
C954 - Information Technology Management - IT Management introduces the key topics and skills needed to lead next-generation technology
organizations. This course explores how common applications and innovation drive value and business needs. Ethical and regulatory compliance
issues are discussed, including current practices for risk management, disaster recovery, and cybersecurity. Students will also analyze the key
leadership skills and traits necessary to lead responsive, competitive, and innovative organizations. This course has no prerequisites.
C955 - Applied Probability and Statistics - Applied Probability and Statistics is designed to help students develop competence in the fundamental
concepts of basic statistics including: introductory algebra and graphing; descriptive statistics; regression and correlation; and probability. Statistical
data and probability are often used in everyday life, science, business, information technology, and educational settings to make informed decisions
about the validity of studies and the effect of data on decisions. This course discusses what constitutes sound research design and how to
appropriately model phenomena using statistical data. Additionally, the content covers simple probability calculations, based on events that occur in
the business and IT industries. No prerequisites are required for this course.
C957 - Applied Algebra - Applied Algebra is designed to help you develop competence in working with functions, the algebra of functions, and using
some applied properties of functions. You will start learning about how we can apply different kinds of functions to relevant, real-life examples. From
there, the algebra of several families of functions will be explored, including linear, polynomial, exponential, and logistic functions. You will also learn
about relevant, applicable mathematical properties of each family of functions, including rate of change, concavity, maximizing/minimizing, and
asymptotes. These properties will be used to solve problems related to your major and make sense of everyday living problems. Students should
complete Applied Probability and Statistics or its equivalent prior to engaging in Applied Algebra.
C958 - Calculus I - This course guides candidates to apply theoretical concepts of calculus to real-world situations, demonstrating a developing
mathematical mindset. This course focuses on limits, derivatives, integrals, and differential equations; it also prepares students for Discrete
Mathematics. Prerequisites may include an entrance exam that assesses pre-calculus skills, or readiness; alternatively, completion of pre-calculus
within the past 3 – 5 years.
C959 - Discrete Mathematics I - Discrete Mathematics I helps candidates develop competence in the use of abstract, discrete structures fundamental
to computer science. In particular, this course will introduce candidates to logic and proofs; Boolean algebra and functions; set theory; finite and infinite
sequences and series; and relations, graphs, and trees. The course emphasizes applications in computer science. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this
course.
C960 - Discrete Mathematics II - Discrete Mathematics II addresses abstract, discrete, computational methods used in computer science. In particular,
this class introduces searching and sorting algorithms; big-O estimates; number theory and cryptography; recursion and induction; counting and
advanced counting techniques; discrete probability; and modeling computation. This course emphasizes applications in computer science. Discrete
Mathematics I is a prerequisite for this course.
C962 - Current and Emerging Technology - Current and Emerging Technologies explores organizational leadership trends, practices, processes, and
technology in contemporary technology-intensive organizations. IT executives need to stay informed of technological trends to determine their
relevance and implementation within an organization. This course requires students to read and evaluate academic literature pertaining to emerging IT
topics. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 256
C963 - American Politics and the US Constitution - American Politics and the U.S. Constitution examines the evolution of representative government in
the United States and the changing interpretations of the civil rights and civil liberties protected by the Constitution. This course will give candidates an
understanding of the powers of the branches of the federal government, the continual tensions inherent in a federal system, the shifting relationship
between state and federal governments, and the interactions between elected officials and the ever-changing electorate. This course will focus on
such topics as the role of a free press in a democracy, the impact of changing demographics on American politics, and the debates over and
expansion of civil rights. Upon completion of the course, candidates should be able to explain the basic functions of the federal government, describe
the forces that shape American policy and politics, and be better prepared to participate in America’s civic institutions. This course has no prerequisite.
C966 - Teaching in the Middle School - Teaching in Middle School examines the guiding principles and best teaching practices for educating middle
school students. The course explores the history of middle school; the philosophy, theory, and rationale behind middle school organization; and the
differences between elementary, middle, and secondary schools. The course also examines the unique needs of middle school students and teaching
methods used to meet the needs of these learners. This course has no prerequisites.
C968 - Software I – C# - Software I - C# builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for C# application
development. You will learn about and put into action: class design, exception handling, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop
software that meets business requirements. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming.
C969 - Software II – Advanced C# - Software II - Advanced C# refines object-oriented programming expertise and builds database and file server
application development skills. You will learn about and put into action lambda expressions, collections, and input/output to develop software with C#
that meets business requirements. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the C# language. The prerequisite
for this course is Software I - C#.
C971 - Mobile Application Development Using C# - Mobile Application Development Using C# introduces students to programming for mobile devices.
Building on students’ previous programming knowledge in C#, this course explores a broad range of topics, including mobile user interface design and
development; building applications that adapt to different mobile devices and platforms; managing data using a local database; and consuming REST-
based web services. In this course, students will focus on developing skills using the latest framework designed to provide a more modern and
streamlined development experience. This framework will help students design and code cross-platform applications that work on a range of mobile
devices. There are several prerequisites for this course: Software I and II, and UI Design.
C975 - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science - Science Methods—Middle Grades General Science focuses on teaching methods specific
to science for graduate students seeking an endorsement in middle school science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-
based lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the
appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan
appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and
assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C976 - Science Methods—Secondary Biology - Science Methods—Secondary Biology focuses on teaching methods specific to science for graduate
students seeking an endorsement in secondary biology. This course focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the three
dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of
technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction.
This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and
the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C977 - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry - Science Methods—Secondary Chemistry focuses on teaching methods specific to science for
graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary chemistry. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons
using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate
integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science
instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science
classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and assessment is a prerequisite for
this course.
C978 - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science - Science Methods—Secondary Earth Science focuses on teaching methods specific to science
for graduate students seeking an endorsement in secondary earth science. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based
lessons using the three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the
appropriate integration of technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan
appropriate science instruction. This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and
procedures for science classrooms and the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and
assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C979 - Science Methods—Secondary Physics - Science Methods—Secondary Physics focuses on teaching methods specific to science for graduate
students seeking an endorsement in secondary physics. Course content focuses on the design and teaching of standards-based lessons using the
three dimensions of science (science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and disciplinary core ideas) and the appropriate integration of
technology into those lessons. Students in this course work within their content areas to evaluate, enhance, and plan appropriate science instruction.
This course includes laboratory safety training and certification, which includes safe laboratory practices and procedures for science classrooms and
the proper use of personal protective equipment. Previous coursework in curriculum, instruction, and assessment is a prerequisite for this course.
C992 - College Geometry - College Geometry covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use dynamic technology to explore geometry, to use
axiomatic reasoning to prove statements about geometry, and to apply geometric models to solve real-life problems. Topics include axiomatic
systems, analytic proofs, coordinate geometry, plane and solid Euclidean geometry, non-Euclidean geometries, constructions, transformations,
deductive reasoning, and dynamic technology. College Algebra as well as Trigonometry and Precalculus are prerequisites.
CQC2 - Calculus II - Calculus II is the study of the accumulation of change in relation to the area under a curve. It covers the knowledge and skills
necessary to apply integral calculus of one variable and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include
antiderivatives; indefinite integrals; the substitution rule; Riemann sums; the fundamental theorem of calculus; definite integrals; acceleration, velocity,
position, and initial values; integration by parts; integration by trigonometric substitution; integration by partial fractions; numerical integration; improper
integration; area between curves; volumes and surface areas of revolution; arc length; work; center of mass; separable differential equations; direction
fields; growth and decay problems; and sequences. Calculus I is a prerequisite for this course.
CUA1 - Culture - Focuses on the nature and role of culture and the importance of cultural groups and cultural identity.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 257
D016 - Leadership Foundations and Ethics - Leadership Foundations and Ethics presents candidates with a variety of leadership theories and
strategies used by PK–12 educational leaders to develop, sustain, and evaluate a coherent system of academic and social supports that meet the full
range of students' needs. Foundational knowledge addresses the importance of developing mission, vision, and core values in collaboration with
faculty, staff, and the school community to advocate for student success. The course also covers communication strategies, interpersonal skills, and
using data to build community, influence school culture, and manage change for continuous improvement. In addition, candidates are introduced to the
significance of following professional ethical codes and the importance of modeling and advocating ethical behavior with all stakeholders.
D017 - School Law - School Law prepares candidates to understand the appropriate application of laws, rights, policies, and regulations to promote
student success. The course emphasizes the importance of understanding the history of and relationship between federal and state laws, legal
decisions, local education policies, and practices at the local school level to ensure compliance. The course further focuses on understanding the legal
rights and protections provided for all students, including those with disabilities, as well as school staff. It also addresses curriculum and instruction that
help stakeholders understand the possible effects these rights may have on administrative decisions. Candidates are also provided the opportunity to
demonstrate their capability to evaluate legal consequences of administrative decisions.
D018 - Leading Inclusive Schools - Leading Inclusive Schools covers a variety of topics that directly affect students who have been assessed and
determined to need additional support or services to ensure their academic success and well-being. The course prepares candidates to understand
and comply with applicable laws, rights, policies, and regulations as appropriate to address matters of equity, fairness, and student marginalization
based on culture and language, disability, or giftedness. These include types of special education classifications and their significance, working with
English learners (ELs), working with gifted and talented students, and using Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS) frameworks to ensure optimum
learning environments for diverse learners. This course will guide candidates in building a strong repertoire of skills and knowledge related to
exceptional students. It will help them ensure that each student has equitable access to effective teachers; learning opportunities; academic, social,
and behavioral support; and other resources necessary for success. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of the School Law
course.
D019 - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices - Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices focuses on the development of data literacy skills
educators need to improve the learning and development opportunities of K–12 students. Candidates will practice identifying educational problems and
data types, generating data, analyzing data, making inferences and drawing conclusions, and creating action plans within their educational settings.
Candidates will also learn best practices for data literacy, including continuous improvement planning, approaches to professional learning
communities, and instructional decision-making processes. This course has no prerequisites.
D022 - People and Talent in Educational Leadership - People and Talent in Educational Leadership prepares candidates to understand and implement
practices used to recruit, hire, and prepare school personnel to provide students with an optimal learning environment. Various school professional
development practices, such as professional learning communities, collaborative learning communities, beginning teacher induction, and mentor
programs, will be covered. Additionally the course covers methods to evaluate school personnel appropriately based on data-driven decisions;
providing realistic and actionable feedback to school personnel to continuously drive improvement; engaging all school personnel in the use and
evaluation of competing school-wide initiatives; creating and sustaining a professional culture of engagement and commitment by developing
workplace conditions that promote employee development, well-being, and professional growth; and continuously supporting school personnel to
improve their instructional practices through ongoing professional development. The candidate will also reflect on leadership standards in order to
develop a personal professional growth plan. A prerequisite for this course is D017: School Law.
D023 - School Financial Leadership - School Financial Leadership focuses on financial policies, practices, and issues connected to PK–12 school
operations. The course describes various sources of school funding, the impact these sources can have on managing school budgets, and the
challenges connected to finances that are often encountered by school leaders to ensure equitable financial support for all students. Candidates learn
how to analyze different types of school budgets and understand the principal's role in the budgetary process to ensure alignment to the school's
mission, vision, and values. This course also identifies and explains various types of commonly used accounting regulations, rules, and professional
ethical principles used to create, maintain, and evaluate school budgets to ensure the equitable and ethical use of financial resources. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of D017: School Law.
D024 - Professional Presence and Influence - Professional Presence and Influence is a masters-level course designed to guide students towards an
enhanced state of presence, where therapeutic relationships are built between nurse and patient. Students will learn techniques for self-care practices
that result in enhanced mental and physical wellbeing and that ensure ethically-generated patient care. Presence is an intrapersonal and interpersonal
quality that allows the nurse to relate to others and to be aware of the world around them. The characteristics of presence, which include holism,
intimacy, sensitivity and adaptability, create a heightened sense of awareness that fosters therapeutic relationships between the nurse and patient.
Developing a mindful, authentic presence is central to health and spiritual practices in several cultures and a major element of leadership. Students will
intentionally develop a focused mindfulness practice that will influence patient outcomes and lead to conditions that create joy in the workplace.
D025 - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional Practice - Essentials of Advanced Nursing Roles and Interprofessional Practice
explores essential characteristics of the advanced professional nurse in the role of leader, educator, practitioner, or informatics specialist. In this
course, students will apply evidence-based strategies to facilitate interprofessional collaboration on teams. Students will explore the role of nurses in
advocating for change at the bedside, as well as leading teams to advocate for health policy reform. Students will gather and analyze data to identify
patients and populations at risk and recommend policy change to improve health outcomes in the community.
D026 - Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care - Quality Outcomes in a Culture of Value-Based Nursing Care incorporates current
standards of quality and safety within the context of value-based care. In a value-based healthcare system, the benefits are derived from measuring
health outcomes against the cost of delivering the outcomes. These benefits are then extended to patients, providers, payers, suppliers, and society as
a whole. This course introduces new healthcare delivery models, which stress a team-oriented approach to patient care and sharing of patient data so
that care is coordinated, and outcomes can be measured easily. Emphasis is placed on performance and quality improvement methods that underlie
value-based nursing care. The nurse in advanced practice today must exemplify the standards of quality and safety and be prepared to lead the
delivery of value-based patient-centered care.
D027 - Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations - Advanced Pathopharmacological Foundations provides advanced practice nurses foundational
knowledge in the many pathologies encountered in practice today. Advancing from the cellular to the body system level, this course examines the
pathologies of common conditions seen in healthcare today. Consideration is also given to the human affective response to alterations in health. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 258
D028 - Advanced Health Assessment for Patients and Populations - Advanced Health Assessment of Patients and Populations builds on prior physical
health assessment knowledge and skills acquired during undergraduate studies by focusing on the advanced assessment of biopsychosocial and
sociocultural contexts in patients and populations across the life span. This course emphasizes the use of a comprehensive health promotion, disease
prevention, and health restoration model to address health concerns in patients and communities. Students will acquire advanced assessment
knowledge and skills for clinical interviewing, focused history taking, critical diagnostic reasoning, and clinical decision-making using a problem-
focused framework that integrates authentic experiences with practical knowledge of health patterns in patients and communities. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D029 - Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care - Informatics for Transforming Nursing Care integrates nursing science with multiple information and
analytical sciences to identify, define, manage, and communicate data, information, knowledge, and wisdom in nursing practice. Students will acquire
knowledge and skills to apply informatics concepts, communications, and data that are critical to facilitating interprofessional data-driven decision-
making. It is designed to build competence in the use of patient- and population-based applications that inform and support the transformation of
nursing care delivery toward a future of value-based quality nursing care that improves health outcomes. This course aligns theoretical concepts with
practical applications of informatics and is consistent with the functional areas and responsibilities of informatics nurses as defined by the American
Nurses Association Scope and Standards for nursing informatics.
D030 - Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems - Leadership and Management in Complex Healthcare Systems prepares
graduate nurses to be thoughtful strategists and informed decision-makers who serve as strong leaders in high-performing healthcare systems.
Students develop competencies for managing diverse teams in complex systems, monitoring and measuring organizational performance, allocating
financial and human resources, and leading change towards a transformed healthcare system. Additionally, students acquire the knowledge and skills
to become full partners with other healthcare professionals by demonstrating nurse contributions toward high-quality care to patients and populations,
while working collaboratively with interprofessional teams. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D031 - Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice - Advancing Evidence-Based Innovation in Nursing Practice introduces students to
the dynamic union of healthcare innovation and evidence. Core competencies and behaviors required to be a nurse innovator are discussed.
Strategies for measuring innovation at various system levels are presented, as well as techniques for synthesizing and disseminating evidence to
advance innovation in healthcare. The skills needed to appraise the quality of diverse sources of evidence are presented within the framework of
evidence-based practice. This course focuses on identifying new and emerging sources of evidence that can inform, translate, and scale the
complexity of leading innovation in healthcare organizations. Students will experience building communities of practice for collaboratively developing
innovative practices and policies designed to improve the health of populations and enhance the patient experience of care.
D033 - Healthcare Information Systems Management - Healthcare Information Systems Management provides an overview of many facets of
information systems in healthcare. This course explores how information technology (IT) is an organizational resource that must be managed so that it
supports or enables healthcare organizational strategy. This course will discuss how decision support and communication are securely facilitated in the
healthcare marketplace. This course also explores current and continuously evolving technologies, strategic thinking, and issues at the intersection of
health information management and technology.
D034 - Systems Management and School Operations - Systems management and school operations instruct candidates on the operational aspects of
school leadership that are essential to developing, monitoring, and evaluating school management, school systems, and services that address and
support the needs of students and school personnel. Topics presented in this course include systems thinking; development, implementation, and
evaluation of data-based strategic planning; and school improvement processes. Candidates will evaluate the use of appropriate operational
technology and the development of communications systems that provide actionable information to internal and external stakeholders for use in
classroom and school improvement and community engagement. Each of these topics emphasizes the importance of efficiently and effectively
managing school resources to build, maintain, and evaluate a cohesive system of academic and organizational supports, services, extracurricular
activities, and accommodations to meet the full range of needs for each student. Prerequisites for this course: Leadership Foundations and Ethics and
School Law.
D035 - Educational Inquiry - Educational Inquiry focuses on practical problem solving. This course teaches candidates to use scholarly literature to
inform their own practice. It also teaches candidates to engage in their own action research processes, which empowers educators to recognize
opportunities for improvement and to systematically implement and evaluate changes. This course prepares candidates to conduct research for the
capstone. Prerequisites for this course: Data Literacy and Evidence-Based Practices.
D036 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional Practices - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Professional
Practices provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the first of
a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at an approved
practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas directly or indirectly affecting
students. Collaboration within the school and local community is a focal point for this course. The course also includes the completion of assigned
administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating administrator of the
candidate's approved practicum site. Prior to enrolling in this practicum course, the candidate must complete a minimum of 18 CUs.
D037 - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and Operations - Practicum in Educational Leadership - Focus on Instruction and
Operations provides candidates with an authentic, real-world work experience as an educational leader in a K–12 school environment. This is the
second of a two-part experience designed to take place under the leadership and supervision of a practicing school principal or assistant principal at
an approved practicum school site (K–12). This course includes an emphasis on the application of knowledge and skills to areas affecting school
operations and school personnel. The course also includes the completion of assigned administrative duties in a K–12 setting, as defined by the
candidate's state of residence, under the supervision of the cooperating administrator of the candidate's approved practicum site. Prior to enrolling in
this practicum course, the candidate must complete a minimum of 18 CUs.
D038 - Educational Leadership Capstone - Educational Leadership Capstone serves as the culminating experience of this degree program, uniting
content area knowledge with the execution of a problem-based learning project. Under the guidance of program faculty, candidates will apply their data
literacy and research skills authentically and to topics appropriate to the candidate's degree program and future career goals. Projects will include
action research or program evaluation and the qualitative or quantitative research methods necessitated by the project's purpose. Prerequisites include
Data Literacy and Educational Inquiry, as well as all content area courses and field experiences prescribed in one's area of study. This course is
designed to be taken after successful completion of all courses with the exception of Educational Inquiry, which may be taken concurrently.
D072 - Fundamentals for Success in Business - This introductory course provides students with an overview of the field of business and a basic
understanding of how management, organizational structure, communication, and leadership styles affect the business environment. It also introduces
them to some of the power skills that help make successful business professionals, including time management, problem solving, emotional
intelligence and innovation; while also teaching them the importance of ethics. This course gives students an opportunity to begin to explore their own
strengths and passions in relation to the field while also acclimating them to the online competency-based environment.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 259
D075 - Information Technology Management Essentials - Information Technology Management Essentials includes topics such as information systems
analysis, database resource management, spreadsheet literacy, and computer literacy concepts. This course will help students understand the
importance of information technology in an organization and apply databases to solve business problems.
D076 - Finance Skills for Managers - This course provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of finance and its context within the
business environment. Students gain the knowledge to differentiate between personal and business finance and how they may overlap in a business
environment. Students also gain a fundamental knowledge of financial forecasting and budgeting, statement analysis, and decision making. This
course provides the student a business generalist overview of the field of finance and builds on previous acquired competencies related to using
spreadsheets.
D077 - Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact - Concepts in Marketing, Sales, and Customer Contact introduces students to the
discipline of marketing and its role within the strategic and operational environments of a business. This course covers fundamental knowledge in the
area of marketing planning, including the marketing mix, while also describing basic concepts of brand management, digital marketing, customer
relationship management, and personal selling and negotiating. All of this helps students identify the role of marketing within an organization. This
course provides students with a business generalist overview of the field of marketing and an exploration of the marketing major.
D078 - Business Environment Applications I: Business Structures and Legal Environment - Business Environment Applications 1 provides students
with a generalist overview of the business environment and a deeper look at a number of topics that make up the non-discipline areas of business
which are required for a business person to be successful within any business environment. The first part of the course focuses on knowledge about
organizations and how people operate within organizations, including the areas of organizational theory, structure, and effectiveness. The course then
looks at business from a legal perspective with an overview of the legal environment of business. The course will prepare the student to consider
specific legal situations and to make legal and ethical decisions related to those situations.
D079 - Business Environment Applications II: Process, Logistics, and Operations - Business Environment II: Logistics, Process, and Operations
provides students with a generalist overview of the business environment as they explore themes of ethics, problem-solving, and innovative thinking.
This course adds to the students’ business skills and knowledge in a number of professional areas. The first part of the course uncovers a series of
business processes like project and risk management. The second part gives an introductory-level look at the specialized areas of operations
management, supply chains, and logistics. The course finishes with models of change management and how to use them to overcome barriers in
organizations.
D080 - Managing in a Global Business Environment - Managing in a Global Business Environment provides students with a generalist overview of
business from a global perspective, while also developing basic skills and knowledge to help them make strategic decisions, communicate, and
develop personal relationships in a global environment. Business today is by its very nature a global environment, and individuals working in business
will experience the global nature of business as they progress through their careers. This course builds on previously acquired competencies by
providing an overview of U.S. federal laws in relation to doing business in a global environment.
D081 - Innovative and Strategic Thinking - This course covers an important part of being a business professional: the knowledge and skills used in
building and implementing business strategy. The course helps students build on previously acquired competencies in the areas of management,
innovative thinking, and risk management while introducing them to the concepts and theories underpinning business strategy as a general business
perspective. The course will help students gain skills in analyzing different business environments and in using quantitative literacy and data analysis
in business strategy development and implementation. This course helps to provide students with a generalist overview of the area of business
strategy.
D082 - Emotional and Cultural Intelligence - Emotional and Cultural Intelligence focuses on key personal awareness skills that businesses request
when hiring personnel. Key among those abilities is communication. Students will increase their skills in written, verbal, and nonverbal communication
skills. The course then looks at three areas of personal awareness including emotional intelligence (EI), cultural awareness, and ethical self-awareness
– building on previously acquired competencies and adding new ones. This course helps start students on a road of self-discovery, cultivating
awareness to improve both as a business professional and personally.
D089 - Principles of Economics - Principles of Economics introduces students to foundational economic theories on markets and market behavior. This
information is valuable to students pursuing careers involving decision making and is applicable to any industry. This course has three competencies:
The Economic Way of Thinking, Microeconomics, and Macroeconomics. In the first, economics is defined, and fundamental economic principles are
introduced. Microeconomics develops the supply and demand model and demonstrates how it is used to understand business interactions and to
make public policy decisions. The competency includes supply, demand, elasticity, efficiency, market failure, costs, production, and market structure.
Macroeconomics focuses on the measurement and performance of the nation economy. The competency includes macroeconomic variables,
aggregate supply, aggregate demand, money, monetary policy, fiscal policy, and international trade.
D098 - Digital Marketing - This course provides students with a knowledge of digital marketing and an introduction to specializations within digital
marketing. Foundational knowledge in the areas of content marketing, digital advertising, search engine optimization, social media, web development
and analysis, and marketing automation is provided. Students gain a broad overview of digital marketing and an opportunity to explore specific areas
of specialization within the field of digital marketing to understand how digital marketing is integrated within a firm’s overall marketing strategy.
D099 - Sales Management - This course provides students with knowledge on the sales profession, customer relationship management, and sales
management functions. Students gain insights into the sales process, the relationship between sales and marketing, and the responsibilities of sales
management within both business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) selling environments.
D100 - Introduction to Spreadsheets - The Introduction to Spreadsheets course will help students become proficient in using spreadsheets to analyze
business problems. Students will demonstrate competency in spreadsheet development and analysis for business applications (e.g., using essential
spreadsheet functions, formulas, tables, charts, etc.). Introduction to Spreadsheets has no prerequisites.
D101 - Cost and Managerial Accounting - Cost and Managerial Accounting focuses on the concepts and procedures needed to identify, collect, and
interpret accounting data for management control and decision-making. Topics covered include budgeting, cost-volume-profit analysis, job costing,
process costing, activity-based costing, standard costing, and differential analysis. Prerequisites include Principles of Accounting and Financial
Accounting.
D102 - Financial Accounting - Financial Accounting focuses on ways in which accounting principles are used in business operations. Students learn
the basics of financial accounting, including how the accounting cycle is used to record business transactions under generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP). Students will also be introduced to the concepts of assets, liabilities, and equity. This course also presents bank reconciliation
methods, balance sheets, and business ethics. Principles of Accounting is a prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 260
D103 - Intermediate Accounting I - Intermediate Accounting I is the first of three in-depth financial accounting courses for accounting majors. The
course builds upon topics covered in Principles of Accounting and Financial Accounting. The course focuses on financial accounting and accounting
standards; the conceptual framework of the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); the income statement, the statement of cash flows,
and the balance sheet; cash and receivables; and inventory valuation. The prerequisite to this course is Financial Accounting.
D104 - Intermediate Accounting II - Intermediate Accounting II is the second of three in-depth financial accounting courses for accounting majors. The
course focuses on acquisition and disposition of noncurrent assets; depreciation, impairments, and depletion; intangible assets; current liabilities and
contingencies; long-term obligations; stockholders' equity; dilutive securities; and time value of money concepts. The prerequisite to this course is
Intermediate Accounting I.
D105 - Intermediate Accounting III - Intermediate Accounting III provides comprehensive coverage of investments, revenue recognition, accounting for
income taxes, pension plans, and leases. This course completes the intermediate accounting journey. The course explores further advanced topics,
including accounting changes and error analysis, full disclosure requirements in financial reporting, and interpretation of the statement of cash flows.
Intermediate Accounting I and II are the prerequisites for this course.
D115 - Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the
graduate nursing student for the role of an advanced practice nurse with the competencies and skills needed to recognize disease states, identify
disease progression, and assess and evaluate symptoms for patients across the lifespan. This course will help the graduate nursing student gain a
deeper understanding of pathophysiology from the cellular to the systems level and will provide graduate nursing students with the knowledge and
skills to determine the etiology, underlying physiological changes, and the human affective responses to alterations in health. This course will also
prepare the graduate nursing student to communicate the pathophysiology of disease processes to providers and patients.
D116 - Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate
nursing student for the role of an advanced practice nurse with the competencies and skills for prescribing and monitoring medication safely and
effectively. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to apply pharmacotherapeutics in primary care settings by utilizing the pivotal basis of
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to select the correct medication, describe the
rationale for that selection to the patient, family, and other providers, and to effectively monitor the patient to promote positive drug outcomes.
D117 - Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Advanced Health Assessment prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies necessary to provide primary health care to patients and families of
diverse populations. Students will develop the skills needed for systematically collecting and analyzing subjective and objective patient data. Through
simulation and clinical experiences, students will use data to determine current and ongoing patient health status, predict health risks, and identify
health-promoting activities for patients across the lifespan. Advanced Health Assessment will prepare the nursing graduate with the critical thinking,
clinical reasoning, and advanced diagnostic skills required for advanced practice nursing. Upon completion of Advanced Health Assessment, the
graduate will be able to synthesize individual and systems level subjective and objective data to facilitate the differential diagnosis processes. Also, the
graduate will be able to clearly describe to patients and providers the pertinent health assessment findings and rationale supporting the diagnostic
process.
D118 - Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Adult Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate nursing
student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to provide primary healthcare to adult
patients and families. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to demonstrate competence in leading health promotion and disease
prevention activities; diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for patients with acute and chronic conditions; and empowering patients to pursue
positive health outcomes. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to collaborate with adult patients to develop effective plans of care
that build patient self-efficacy in the process of preventing and treating disease. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D119 - Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Pediatric Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse prepares the graduate
nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to provide primary healthcare
to pediatric patients, from infancy through adolescence, and their families in an outpatient setting. This course will prepare the graduate nursing
student to demonstrate competence in leading health promotion and disease prevention activities; in diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for
pediatric patients with acute and chronic conditions; and in empowering patients and their families in pursuing positive health outcomes. This course
will also prepare the graduate nursing student to collaborate with pediatric patients and their families in developing effective plans of care that build
patient and family self-efficacy in the process of preventing and treating disease. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D120 - Special Populations Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse - Special Populations Primary Care for the Advanced Practice Nurse
prepares the graduate nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to
provide primary healthcare to unique patient populations in the outpatient setting. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to demonstrate
competence in leading health promotion and disease prevention activities; in diagnosing, managing, and coordinating care for patients with specific
disease processes; and in empowering patients and their families in pursuing positive health outcomes. This course will also prepare the graduate
nursing student to collaborate with unique patient populations and their families in developing effective plans of care that build self-efficacy in the
process of preventing and treating specific disease processes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D121 - Health Promotion of Patients and Populations Across the Lifespan - Health Promotion of Patients and Populations Across the Lifespan
prepares the graduate nursing student to perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to
provide health promotion activities to individuals and populations. This course will prepare the graduate nursing student to incorporate individual
characteristics, population factors, and social determinants of health (SDOH) in determining the most efficient use of finite resources in leading health
promotion activities. This course will also prepare the graduate nursing student to lead health promotion activities for individuals and specific
populations across the lifespan. All MSN Core courses, as well as Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced
Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse must be completed before taking
this course.
D122 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I prepares the graduate nursing student to perform
the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families, and groups
throughout the life span. Using the precepted clinical setting, this course will provide opportunities for the graduate nursing student to combine
competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver patient-centered healthcare. This course will also provide the
graduate nursing student with opportunities to conduct advanced health assessments and use the competencies of advanced pathophysiology,
pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy in individuals and groups, determine
correct diagnoses, and establish plans of care that include patient and population preferences. All MSN Core courses, as well as Advanced
Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for
the Advanced Practice Nurse and FNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 261
D123 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II prepares the graduate nursing student to perform
the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families, and groups
throughout the life span. In the precepted clinical setting, the student will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice
coursework to deliver consumer-centered healthcare. The student will conduct advanced health assessments and use the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy in individuals and
groups, determine correct diagnoses, and establish plans of care that include consumer and population preferences. All MSN Core courses, Advanced
Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for
the Advanced Practice Nurse, FNP Specialty courses, and D122 Family Nurse Practitioner Internship I must be completed before taking this course.
D124 - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III - Family Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III prepares the graduate nursing student to
perform the role of an advanced practice nurse with the essential competencies and skills necessary to deliver primary care to individuals, families,
and groups across throughout the lifespan. In the precepted clinical setting, the student will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced
practice coursework to deliver consumer-centered healthcare. Therefore, the graduate will conduct advanced health assessments and utilize the
competencies of advanced pathophysiology, pharmacology, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-
efficacy in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish plans of care that include consumer and population preferences.
All MSN Core courses, FNP Specialty course, and Family Nurse Practitioner Internship I and II must be completed before taking this course.
D155 - Leading with Personal Mastery - Leading with Personal Mastery prepares the advanced professional nurse to demonstrate self-awareness,
self-management, executive function, and social awareness skills while leading and managing in diverse healthcare settings. In this course, students
will learn how to incorporate these skills when developing personal relationships and building teams. Developing both social and emotional intelligence
as a nurse leader will ensure that students have the ability develop strong relationships and make wise decisions when interacting with others.
Increasing personal mastery will provide students with a set of tools and strategies to improve healthcare by producing high-quality results.
Understanding their strengths and weaknesses, as a leader in healthcare will help students create a vision for success that includes making choices
that will help balance their work life more effectively.
D156 - Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement - Business Case Analysis for Healthcare Improvement provides learning experiences that
help students develop essential skills for proposing changes that improve and enhance healthcare outcomes. In this course, students will develop a
business case during the early stages of a project by assessing the need for the project and the feasibility of initiating a project. Understanding the
techniques used to develop a business case will provide students with the skills to obtain buy-in from key stakeholders and determine the best value
strategy. Writing a strong business case presents the benefits, challenges, costs, and risks of moving forward with the project or maintaining status
quo. It compares the current situation to a future vision so key stakeholders can make data-driven decisions to move forward with the project. During
the development of a business case in this course, students will collaborate with internal and external stakeholders to initiate a healthcare
improvement project (HIP) that is grounded in project management principles and influenced by stakeholder perspectives.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D157 - Managing Resources in an Era of Disruption - Managing Human and Financial Resources in an Era of Disruption examines the main premise
of people and fiscal leadership. This includes the promotion of healthy work environments through the development of programs in support of
mitigating behavior problems for the betterment of work-life balance. Students will analyze business model budgets, revenue streams, and human and
financial resource allocation, develop training programs to evaluate compliance and regulatory requirement, and create team building experiences to
promote high performing teams by improving engagement, establishing trust, and achieving common goals. Students will assess an organization’s
mission, vision, and values to establish alignment between healthcare improvement and an organization’s principles for management. Changes in
healthcare are inevitable, as the business success strategies used in the past are not sufficient for surviving in an era of persistent disruption. This
course will help students develop the skills nurse leaders need to become partners in recommending innovative strategies that promote value-based
healthcare for the future.
D158 - Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare Improvement Project - Strategically Planning the Execution of a Healthcare Improvement
Project will help students develop the skills for systems thinking, problem-solving, and data-driven decision-making. In this course, students will plan
the implementation of a healthcare improvement project by identifying people, processes, and procedures that need to be in place for implementation.
In addition, sociodemographic data on the population that may be affected by the healthcare improvement project will be analyzed to determine risks
and opportunities. During this phase, students will perform an assessment of the forces that may drive or restrain implementing the project. They will
also identify short-term objectives and create action plans to align to the vision, mission, and values of the organization where the project will be
implemented. Students will also examine the evolution of existing policies, procedures, and processes at the systems level for the purpose of
advocating change that will support a healthcare improvement project. During this course, students will plan the implementation of their healthcare
improvement project through the use of sociodemographic and health data, strategic planning, and a comprehensive integration of quality and safety
concepts. This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D159 - Evidence-Based Measures for Evaluating Healthcare Improvements - Evidence-based measures for evaluating healthcare improvements is an
essential component of the planning phase of the healthcare improvement project. In this course, students will determine key performance indicators
and metrics used to determine the success of a healthcare improvement project (HIP). The student will develop collaborative partnerships and build
consensus with stakeholders to determine how specific data will be collected, managed, and analyzed. This is also an opportunity to discuss data
issues and technologies needed for the project. To accomplish this phase, students will also determine the parameters, procedures, and technologies
needed for data collection, management, analysis, and reporting.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D160 - Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience - The Nursing Leadership and Management Field Experience course provides an
opportunity for students to apply the knowledge and skills they developed in previous courses toward the successful implementation of their healthcare
improvement project (HIP). This phase puts into action all the components of project management that were planned and developed while working
collaboratively with key stakeholders to establish the need and feasibility of the HIP, analyzing the organizational readiness for change, and planning
the implementation and evaluation phases. In this phase, students will develop and implement a training plan for staff, managers, and leaders. They
will also implement the communication plan they developed in a previous course. They will also manage the implementation process by applying
organizational standards and practices. Students will demonstrate strong leadership skills when meeting with stakeholders to report the status of the
implementation phase and collaboratively problem-solve risks. Completion of the specialty courses is a pre-requisite for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 262
D161 - Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone - The Nursing Leadership and Management Capstone provides students with an opportunity to
evaluate and close their capstone project. This is the final course in the MSN Leadership and Management program. Students will evaluate the
success of their healthcare improvement project (HIP) by analyzing results, using the key performance indicators and metrics that were identified while
planning the evaluation phase. Students will present the results of the improvement project in a final report and presentation with a focus on lessons
learned throughout each of the phases: initiation, planning, implementation, and evaluation. Reflective and analytic thinking are essential aspects of a
capstone project, as students reflect and report on the successes and challenges encountered in each phase. Nursing Leadership and Management
Field Experience is a prerequisite for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D174 - Marketing Management - Marketing Management examines foundational marketing concepts. Marketing is ever-present in our daily lives and
this course will help students understand how organizations use marketing activities to create value for their customers. Students will study the
strategic marketing planning process and the marketing mix of product, price, place, and promotion. Students will gain knowledge about the market
research process and how data are used to inform marketing decisions. Emphasis will be placed on ethical and sustainable marketing practices, along
with a focus on service marketing in today’s service economy. This course will provide students with a basic marketing understanding to prepare them
for specialized major courses.
D175 - Consumer Behavior - Consumer Behavior examines the buying behavior of consumers in the marketplace. Students will gain knowledge of
consumer behavior theories and an understanding of how consumer behavior concepts apply to the consumer decision-making process. Students will
learn how consumer insights are gained through the exploration of external social and cultural influences such as reference groups, family, and culture,
as well as consumer influences such as needs, motivation, personality, and learning. The course also provides an interdisciplinary perspective,
including psychology, sociology, anthropology, and economics, to better evaluate and predict consumer behavior.
D176 - Content Marketing - Content Marketing examines how organizations create and distribute marketing communications to attract and retain
customers. Students will gain knowledge of the content planning process and how content marketing supports brand and organizational goals by
learning how to create, distribute, promote, and measure relevant and valuable content. Students will learn content ideation and will write compelling
copy that creates relationships with customers to build trust and enhance an organization’s reputation and authority.
D177 - Brand Management - Brand Management examines how brands provide value to both consumers and organizations. Brands are a part of a
consumer’s everyday life and organization’s strategically plan, measure, and manage brands. In this course, students will apply the strategic brand
management process using a customer-based brand equity model. Students will identify how brand strategies are used and how brand associations
are leveraged to create a competitive advantage. Brand equity measurement systems are explored, including brand audits and tracking studies that
use qualitative and quantitative brand research techniques. Students will construct a brand architecture strategy by identifying brand extension
opportunities to develop an appropriate branding strategy in a global marketplace. Reputation-management strategies and crisis management
techniques are also taught to assist in preserving and protecting an organization’s brand equity.
D178 - Marketing Strategy and Analytics - Marketing Strategy and Analytics is the capstone course for the marketing major. The course provides
students with the opportunity to demonstrate competencies developed throughout the program by engaging in the design, implementation, and
analysis of a marketing strategy. Students are given business scenarios using simulations and case studies to apply critical-thinking and decision-
making skills. Students will analyze the business environment and make decisions about market segmentation, buyer behavior, and the marketing mix.
Students will demonstrate the relationship between strategy and analytics by using marketing analytics to report marketing campaign results and make
recommendations. This course provides students with real-world application to prepare them for the marketing industry.
D179 - Data-Informed Practices - Data-Informed Practices focuses on the development of data literacy skills. This course teaches candidates about
the different types of data, the benefits and limitations of those data types, and how they can use data to identify and solve problems and inform
decisions. The course also teaches candidates how to locate, collect, and analyze data from relevant and credible sources, and how to draw
conclusions from data in order to drive continuous improvement. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D180 - Educational Research - Educational Research focuses on practical problem solving. This course teaches candidates to use scholarly literature
and current research to inform their own practice. It also empowers candidates to recognize opportunities for improvement and engage in action
research to systematically implement and evaluate changes. This course prepares candidates to conduct research for the capstone. Data-Informed
Practices is a prerequisite for this course.
D181 - MSCIN Capstone - The Master of Science in Curriculum and Instruction Capstone is the culminating course of the degree. It unites content
area knowledge with the completion of a research project or study. This course teaches candidates, under the guidance of program faculty, to apply
their data literacy and research skills to topics related to curriculum and instruction and to their career goals. Projects for this course include action
research or applied research through the necessary qualitative, quantitative, or mixed research methods. Prerequisites for this course include Data-
Informed Practices and Educational Research, as well as all prescribed courses in the candidates' area of study. Additionally, students wishing to add
the Capstone with fewer than four weeks remaining in the term must receive permission from program leadership.
D184 - Standards-Based Assessment - Standards-Based Assessment teaches candidates how to unpack academic standards to determine the
essential learnings within the standards that should be assessed. This course teaches candidates how to determine, based on academic standards,
which topics should be assessed and how to use proficiency statements to create and score standards-based assessments. This course also prepares
students to analyze assessment data and develop a holistic assessment system for a specific subject and grade level. Differentiated Instruction is a
prerequisite for this course.
D186 - Learning as a Science - Learning as a Science examines how research from the field of learning sciences can be applied to improve teaching
and learning. This course explains how teachers can create a sense of community by examining personal biases and establishing a culturally inclusive
learning environment. The course also provides evidence-based strategies for improving motivation, increasing understanding and retention, and
teaching social-emotional skills that students need to be successful socially and academically. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D187 - Differentiated Instruction - Differentiated Instruction examines how the classroom environment and students’ readiness levels, interests, and
learning profiles influence learning. K–12 educators taking this course will acquire a deep understanding of their students in order to differentiate their
curriculum, instruction, and assessments in response to individual students’ needs. This course will allow students to also learn how to effectively
monitor and communicate students’ progress toward standards and adjust their practice as needed to empower students and nurture their abilities and
aptitudes. As a result of their learning in this course, K–12 teachers will be prepared to act as catalysts for differentiation within their schools and
districts. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D188 - The Collaborative Leader - The Collaborative Leader demonstrates strategies teacher leaders can use to collaborate with other professionals,
families, and communities to build strong relationships and improve school effectiveness. This course examines models of collaboration and the
benefits and challenges of collaboration. It also examines the characteristics of effective professional development and explains how to collaboratively
design effective professional development opportunities for educators. Finally, this course demonstrates how accomplished teachers can build
relationships with families and the community to create a positive learning experience for students. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 263
D190 - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems - Introduction to Healthcare IT Systems introduces students to healthcare information technology as a
discipline. Focusing on evaluating health information systems and collecting data, students will learn the various roles and functions of the health
information manager in supporting the business of healthcare. This course introduces students to information technology as a discipline. This course
also exposes students to the various roles and functions of the health information manager in supporting the business of healthcare. Students will learn
through e-text readings, videos, case studies, several modules from LinkedIn Learning, knowledge checks, and unit quizzes. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D196 - Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting - Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting provides students with an introduction to
the discipline of accounting and its context within the business environment. In this course, students will learn to differentiate between financial, cost,
and managerial accounting and where these accounting types fit into the business environment. This course will help students gain a fundamental
knowledge of the budgeting process, how to analyze basic financial statements, and how to use spreadsheets to analyze data. This course provides
students with a business generalist overview of the field of accounting and acts as a preview course for the accounting major.
D197 - Version Control - Version control is critical to maintaining software and enabling scalability solutions. A best practice for any programming
project that requires multiple files uses version control. Version control enables teams to have collaborative workflows and enhances the software
development lifecycle. This course introduces students to the basics of publishing, retrieving, branching, and cloning. There are no prerequisites for
this course.
D198 - Global Arts and Humanities - This is a Global Arts and Humanities course that contains three modules with corresponding lessons. This course
is an invitation to see the world through the humanities, examine the humanities during the Information Age, and explore the global origins of
music—essentially questioning what makes us human, and how people are connected across culture and time. Each module includes learning
opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities to practice
and check learning. With no prior knowledge or experience, a learner can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D199 - Introduction to Physical and Human Geography - This is Introduction to Physical and Human Geography, a three-module course that
addresses the question of what geography really is in today's complex world; how migration affects—and has been affected by—geography; and one of
the biggest present problems related to geography: climate change. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly
or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior
knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30–40 hours on the course content.
D202 - Human Growth and Development - This is Human Growth and Development, a three-module course that examines the entire human lifetime,
from conception to death. Presented chronologically, the course focuses on three key areas: physical, cognitive, and psychosocial growth, along with
other important issues such as cultural influences, emotions, and resilience. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as
quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no
prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D203 - Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology - Fundamentals of Anatomy and Physiology provides an overview of the structures and functions of
organs and systems of the human body. This course will explore how the parts of the body systems work together to produce movement, transport
nutrients, eliminate wastes, protect vital tissues and organs, regulate bodily functions, and support reproduction and growth, through videos, readings,
exploratory learning, and practice activities.
D215 - Auditing - Auditing covers the entire auditing process. This course will help students gain an understanding of the different assurance services,
the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct, and the conceptual framework for members in public practice. The course will teach students how to assess
for audit risk, develop an audit strategy, and gain an understanding of the audit client. Audit evidence and a client’s system of internal control will be
discussed in depth. The course requires students to assess risk response by identifying and evaluating tests of controls and substantive procedures. In
addition, the course will have students evaluate risk response using data analytics and audit sampling for substantive tests. The course concludes with
the completion of the audit through subsequent events, engagement wrap-up and management representation, and reporting on the audit with an
unqualified audit report or a modification of the audit report. The prerequisites to this course are Intermediate Accounting I, II, and III, Accounting
Information Systems, and Business Law for Accountants.
D216 - Business Law for Accountants - Business Law for Accountants is designed to provide the advanced accounting student an understanding of the
legal environment and issues encountered in the profession. Topics include the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), contracts, securities regulation,
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, legal entities, ethics, agency, and bankruptcy. The prerequisite to this course is Financial Accounting.
D217 - Accounting Information Systems - Accounting Information Systems (AIS for short) introduces students to AIS, with particular emphasis on the
accountant’s role in management and financial reporting systems. Topics include transaction cycles and related information technology (IT) controls,
data management, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and e-commerce systems, systems development and acquisition, documentation, and IT
auditing. D103 Intermediate Accounting I and D104 Intermediate Accounting II are the prerequisites to this course.
D218 - Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional Growth - Intrapersonal Leadership and Professional Growth fosters the development of professional
identity. Building on the knowledge, skills, and attitudes gained through nursing practice, students in this course will explore the relationship of
theories, professional competencies, standards of leadership, education, and professionalism. The course content will cover development of a nurse
as a leader who is proficient in asserting control, influence, and power in professional and personal contexts.
D219 - Scholarship in Nursing Practice - Scholarship in Nursing Practice teaches students how to design and conduct research to answer important
questions about improving nursing practice and patient care delivery outcomes. This course introduces the basics of evidence-based practice, which
students are expected to implement throughout their clinical experiences. Students of this course will graduate with more competence and confidence
to become leaders in the healing environment.
D220 - Information Technology in Nursing Practice - Information Technology in Nursing Practice provides a basic overview of information technology
as it relates to the baccalaureate-prepared nurse. It is a foundational overview of nursing informatics with an emphasis on developing basic
competency. This course teaches students that nursing informatics synthesizes nursing science, information science, and computer science through
health applications to support decision-making in a dynamic healthcare environment. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as
prerequisites for this course.
D221 - Organizational Systems and Healthcare Transformation - Course Description Organizational Systems and Healthcare Transformation covers
foundational knowledge, skills, and attitudes toward organizational leadership within healthcare systems that can help students be successful. This
course focuses on the concepts of patient safety, improvement science, fiscal responsiveness, quality of care, value-based care, and patient-centered
care. Additional topics of quality science and innovation, systems redesign, and interprofessional roles assist the student in building necessary skills
for healthcare transformation. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 264
D222 - Comprehensive Health Assessment - Comprehensive Health Assessment builds upon students’ existing knowledge of nursing assessment. The
course presents current and innovative assessment techniques of the physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual well-being of patients. Use of
assessment data and shared decision-making are discussed throughout the course. This course also outlines the concepts of a head-to-toe
assessment, providing students with an understanding of how to critically think about the different aspects of the assessment and analyze patient cues
to determine the implications of findings. Students will also analyze lifestyle and cultural implications of health. All prior courses in the sequence for this
program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D223 - Healthcare Policy and Economics - Healthcare Policy and Economics is a foundational course that introduces the concepts of value-based care
and the role of the nurse. This course includes concepts related to financial responsiveness, shared decision-making, preference-sensitive care,
leveraging data. In this course, students learn about cost and fee-for-service in terms of value to the client and patient rather than value to the
healthcare system. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
D224 - Global and Population Health - Global and Population Health prepares students for the role of the nurse in preserving and promoting health
among diverse populations. Additionally, basic principles of epidemiology, social determinants of health (SDOH), and resource allocation through
value-based care are outlined. The course introduces planning, organization, and delivery of services for diverse populations in community settings,
including illness prevention, disaster preparedness, and environmental health. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites
for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D225 - Emerging Professional Practice - Emerging Professional Practice presents a variety of professional nursing specialty areas. Students explore
various practice specialties, including palliative care, genetics and genomics, and others. The course provides pathways to specialized nursing
practice. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D226 - BSNU Capstone - The BSNU capstone is a synthesis of previously acquired knowledge, skills, and attitudes and requires students to
demonstrate competency in the program outcomes. Emphasis is placed on change facilitation in a healthcare setting, based in evidence and
incorporating value-based care. This course provides students with an opportunity to engage in a project that is actionable, relevant, highly
collaborative, and based on innovative thinking.
D235 - Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare - Interprofessional Communication and Leadership in Healthcare is designed to
help students prepare for success in the online environment at Western Governors University and beyond. Student success starts with the social
support and self-reflective awareness that will prepare them to handle the challenges of all academic programs. In this course, students will complete
several individual assignments that are intended to give the student an opportunity to reflect on where they are and where they would like to be. The
activities in the course are designed to give students several tools they can use to achieve success. This course is designed as a four-part intensive
learning experience. Students will engage in activities that will help them understand their own educational journey and find support and inspiration in
the journey of others. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D236 - Pathophysiology - Pathophysiology is a course designed for nursing students, providing an overview of the pathology and treatment of
diseases in the human body, tissues, glands and membranes, the integumentary system, the sensory system, skeletal and muscular systems, the
digestive system, blood, vessels and circulation, lymphatic system, immunity and disease, heart and respiratory system, nervous, urinary and
endocrine systems, and male and female reproductive systems. Prerequisites include all prior courses in this programmatic sequence.
D246 - Influential Communication through Visual Design and Storytelling - Influential Communication through Visual Design and Storytelling provides
learners with foundational visual design and storytelling techniques to influence and create a lasting impression on audiences. Learners will first
explore how human behavior is influenced by visuals and when to apply visual techniques to better communicate with audiences. Next, learners will
learn techniques for creating compelling stories that create memorable images within the audience's mind. Ultimately, learners who master these skills
will be well-positioned to apply their visual and storytelling techniques to not only better communicate their thoughts and ideas to an audience, but to
also influence or motivate them.
D250 - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting - Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting provides learners with the skills and knowledge required to
practice accounting for governmental and nonprofit entities: analyzing and recording transactions, financial statement preparation in accordance with
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standards, and communication.
D251 - Advanced Auditing - Advanced Auditing reviews basic auditing concepts, including (1) planning the audit: identifying, assessing, and
responding to the risk of material misstatement; (2) specialized audit tools: attributes sampling, monetary unit sampling, and data analytic tools; (3)
completing a quality audit; and (4) reporting on financial statement audits. The second part of the course dives into an application of auditing through
(1) understanding how to audit an acquisition and payment cycle and (2) applying the knowledge learned through the acquisition and payment cycle to
the revenue cycle in a performance assessment.
D252 - Accounting Research and Critical Thinking - Accounting Research and Critical Thinking provides learners the skills and knowledge to research
and add validity to accounting reports, resolution of issues, and procedural arguments: critical thinking, communication, research strategies, and
database resources.
D253 - Values-Based Leadership - Values-Based Leadership guides students to learn by reflection, design, and scenario planning. Through a
combination of theory, reflection, value alignment, and practice, the course helps students examine and understand values-based leadership and
explore foundations in creating a culture of care. In this course, students are given the opportunity to identify and define their personal values through
an assessment and reflection process. Students then evaluate business cases to practice mapping the influence of values on their own leadership. In
this course, students also participate in scenario planning, where they can practice implementing their values in their daily routine (i.e., behaviors) and
then in a leadership setting. The course illustrates how values-driven leadership is used in goal setting as well as problem-solving at an organizational
level. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D255 - Professional Practice Experience I: Technical - The PPE I: Technical course allows you to use EHRGo, an electronic health record (EHR), to
complete 42 structured activities to experience how an HIM professional uses an EHR. The selected activities meet AHIMA's Baccalaureate level
competencies and by completing them you will earn 40 PPE hours.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D256 - Principles of Management in Health Information Management - Principles of Management in HIM provides an introductory look at the discipline
of management and its context within the health information management environment. This course provides an overview of management and
leadership, management functions, human resource management, and communication strategies. The course gives students an opportunity to analyze
how leadership and management principles are used to achieve department goals. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 265
D257 - Healthcare Project Management - Healthcare Project Management provides students with a comprehensive foundation for project
management. The course focuses on project management methodologies, process improvement analysis, business case proposals, and creating
project planning documents for health information management (HIM) projects. This course will prepare students to determine project scope and
timelines, complete interdepartmental stakeholder analysis, identify project resources, examine constraints and risks, and contribute to positive project
communication.
D258 - Organizational Leadership in Healthcare - Organizational Leadership in Healthcare provides students with an overview of the principles and
practices leaders need in healthcare environments. The course focuses on organizational leadership theory, behaviors, culture, and teamwork. This
course prepares students to apply leadership theories, principles of organizational culture development, techniques for building and leading teams,
and conflict resolution strategies to support organizational goals. This course has no prerequisites.
D259 - Professional Practice Experience II: Management - The PPE II: Management course allows you to experience your future profession at the
supervisory level. Any site where health information is used, and you can be mentored by a department or facility manager is appropriate for PPE II.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D260 - Health Information Management Capstone - The Health Information Management Capstone is the culmination of the student's degree program.
The course allows students to do an environmental scan focusing specifically on emerging issues and trends in health information management (HIM)
and to apply knowledge learned throughout the program to the problems and issues facing HIM professionals. The student will also develop a
professional and educational development plan. At the end of the course, the student will complete a RHIA practice exam.
D263 - Frameworks for Strategic Decision-Making - Frameworks for Strategic Decision-Making challenges students to use logistical reasoning, root
cause analysis, and various problem-solving skills to drive improvement, develop relationships, influence others, and make decisions. This course
addresses how to evaluate business problems, develop stakeholder-oriented solutions, and influence key stakeholders. It also promotes strategic-level
thinking and connection between business disciplines to drive outcomes. There are no prerequisites.
D265 - Critical Thinking: Reason and Evidence - In this course you will learn key critical thinking concepts and how to apply them in the analysis and
evaluation of reasons and evidence. The course examines the basic components of an argument, the credibility of evidence sources, the impact of
bias, and how to construct an argument that provides good support for a claim. The course consists of an introduction and four major sections. Each
section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide
opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you understand course content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move
through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain proficiency in the four competencies that will be covered in the final assessment. If you
have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D266 - World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections - This is World History: Diverse Cultures and Global Connections. In this course, you
will focus on three main topics—cultural and religious diversity; pandemics; and the relationship of empires and nation states—as well as the skills of
identifying root causes, explaining causes and effects, and analyzing complex systems. This course consists of an introduction and four major
sections. Each section includes learning opportunities through reading, images, videos, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with
feedback also provide opportunities to practice and check how well you understand the content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move
through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final
assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D267 - US History: Stories of American Democracy - This course presents a broad survey of U.S. history from early colonization to the mid-twentieth
century. The course explores how historical events and major themes in American history have affected diverse populations, influenced changes in
policy an established the American definition of democracy. This course consists of an introduction and five major sections. Each section includes
learning opportunities through reading, images, videos, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also provide opportunities to
practice and check how well you understand the content. Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly
as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of
this material, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D268 - Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others - Welcome to Introduction to Communication: Connecting with Others! It may seem like
common knowledge that communication skills are important, and that communicating with others is inescapable in our everyday lives. While this may
appear simplistic, the study of communication is actually complex, dynamic, and multifaceted. Strong communication skills are invaluable to
strengthening a multitude of aspects of life. Specifically, this course will focus on communication in the professional setting, and present material from
multiple vantage points, including communicating with others in a variety of contexts, across situations, and with diverse populations. Upon completion,
you will have a deeper understanding of both your own and others’ communication behaviors, and a toolbox of effective behaviors to enhance your
experience in the workplace.
D269 - Composition: Writing with a Strategy - Welcome to Composition: Writing with a Strategy! In this course, you will focus on three main topics:
understanding purpose, context, and audience, writing strategies and techniques, and editing and revising. In addition, the first section, will offer
review on core elements of the writing process, cross-cultural communication, as well as working with words and common standards and practices.
Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment activities with feedback also
provide opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you understand course content. Because the course is self-paced, you may
move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain proficiency in the seven competencies that will be covered in the final
assessment. If you have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content.
D270 - Composition: Successful Self-Expression - Welcome to Composition: Successful Self-Expression! In this course, you will focus on four main
topics: professional writing for a cross-cultural audience, narrowing research topics and questions, researching for content to support a topic, and
referencing research sources. Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, audio, and other relevant resources. Assessment
activities with feedback also provide opportunities to check your learning, practice, and show how well you understand course content. Because the
course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to gain proficiency in the seven competencies that will be
covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge or experience, you can expect to spend 30-40 hours on the course content. You will
demonstrate competency through a performance assessment. There is no prerequisite for this course and there is no specific technical knowledge
needed.
D276 - Web Development Foundations - Welcome to Web Development Foundations! In this course you will learn about web design and development
using HTML and CSS. This course employs the zyBooks learning platform which contains all the necessary reading materials, knowledge checks, and
hands-on activities to prepare you for the course assessment. For the best understanding of the course content, complete each chapter. This is a
foundational course, and there is no prerequisite. Competency will be demonstrated with a performance assessment.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 266
D277 - Front-End Web Development - Front-End Web Development builds upon web design and development skills to teach students how to organize
websites with navigational schemes and create reactive user web interfaces using cascading style sheets (CSS). In this course, students will
implement data entry and data storage capabilities in a web design, as well as implement best practices in design, including user-centered design and
usability. Web Development Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
D278 - Scripting and Programming - Foundations - Scripting and Programming - Foundations introduces programming basics such as variables, data
types, flow control, and design concepts. The course is language-agnostic in nature, ending in a survey of languages, and introduces the distinction
between interpreted and compiled languages. Learners will gain skills in identifying scripts for computer program requirements and in using
fundamental programming elements as part of common computer programming tasks. Learners will also gain an understanding of the logic and
outcome of simple algorithms.
D279 - User Interface Design - This course covers tools and techniques employed in user interface design, including web and mobile applications.
Concepts of clarity, usability, and detectability are included in this course, as well as other design elements such as color schemes, typography, and
layout. Techniques like wireframing, usability testing, and SEO optimization are also covered.
D280 - JavaScript Programming - JavaScript Programming introduces students to programming with JavaScript, including how to use JavaScript to
enhance a website. This course covers how to use existing frameworks, assets, and web content to enhance website functionality, as well as how to
use application programming interfaces (APIs) and web services to add data capabilities to web applications.
D281 - Linux Foundations - Linux Foundations prepares learners for the LPI Linux Essentials certification, and is an introduction to Linux as an
operating system as well as an introduction to open-source concepts and the basics of the Linux command line. Learners will gain skills in identifying
the fundamentals of open-source software and to develop resources for data access and security.
D282 - Cloud Foundations - Cloud Foundations introduces learners to real-world issues and practical solutions to cloud computing. This course covers
the business value of cloud computing, examining cloud types, the steps to successful cloud adoption, and the effect cloud adoption has on IT service
management, as well as the risks and consequences of implementing cloud solutions. This course prepares learners for the AWS Certified Practitioner
certification exam. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D284 - Software Engineering - Software Engineering introduces the concepts of software engineering to students who have completed the core
courses in programming and project management. The principles build on previously acquired concepts, switching the emphasis from programming
simple routines to engineering robust and scalable software solutions. This course does not cover programming, but it provides an overview of
software engineering processes and their challenging nature, focusing on the need for a disciplined approach to software engineering. A generic
process framework provides the groundwork for formal process models. Prescriptive process models such as the Waterfall Model and Agile
Development are included. This course also introduces the elements and phases of software engineering, including requirements engineering, design
concepts, and software quality. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D286 - Java Fundamentals - Java Fundamentals introduces you to object-oriented programming in the Java language. You will create and call
methods, design Java classes, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop software that meets business requirements. This course
requires foundational knowledge of programming including variables, type, program flow and debugging.
D287 - Java Frameworks - Java Frameworks builds object-oriented programming expertise and introduces powerful new tools for Java application
development. Students will execute exception handling, Java frameworks, and other object-oriented principles and constructs to develop a complete
application including a user interface. This course requires foundational knowledge of object-oriented programming and the Java language.
D288 - Back-End Programming - Back-End Programming introduces students to creating back-end components of a web application with the support
of framework packages. This course also teaches students how to implement database functionality in a web application and how to create web
services. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the Java language.
D291 - Learning Experience Design Foundations I - Learning Experience Design Foundations I provides an introduction to the field of learning
experience design (LxD) and the role of the learning experience designer, which combines best practices from the fields of instructional design and
user experience design, with the goal of creating human centered, goal-oriented learning experiences. This first of two foundational courses introduces
Design Thinking and instructional design models, processes, and approaches. This course demonstrates how learning theories and instructional
frameworks can be applied to facilitate deep learning, motivation, and engagement. This course also teaches the process for analyzing learners and
their needs, as well as defining the instructional problem and goals. There are no prerequisites for this learning experience design course.
D292 - Learning Experience Design Foundations II - Learning Experience Design Foundations II is the second of two foundational courses that provide
the foundational knowledge and skills learning experience designers need to create human-centered, goal-oriented learning experiences. Continuing
to the third, fourth, and final phases of the Design Thinking Process, this course teaches the process and importance of ideation as well as rapid
prototyping. It includes techniques for creating e-learning storyboards, which communicate content plans and instructional design strategies and “look
and feel” mockups, which incorporate visual design principles and usability best practices. Finally, this course introduces usability testing methods and
provides guidelines for planning usability tests for e-learning solutions. Learning Experience Design Foundations I is a prerequisite for this course.
D293 - Assessment and Learning Analytics - Assessment and Learning Analytics focuses specifically on applying assessment and learning analytics
practices to gauge learner progress through e-learning products. This course is an introduction to assessment models, including competency and
skills-based methods, as well as culturally responsive and Universal Design for Learning (UDL) approaches in assessment, rubric, and feedback
design. Finally, this course introduces learning analytics, specifically how they can add an additional layer of validation and visibility on learner
progress.
D294 - Learning Technology - Learning Technology provides opportunities for learners to research emerging learning technologies and see how they
are changing current teaching and learning practices. This course also teaches strategies for evaluating learning technologies and their ability to
facilitate deep learning and help learners achieve their learning goals, as well as their ability to accommodate learner differences and ensure access
for all learners. This course covers techniques that learning experience designers can use to implement technology safely, legally, and ethically in a
variety of environments. Additionally, this course explores the types of learning analytics that various technologies generate and the ways in which
they can be used to better understand learner progress and optimize the learning experience.
D295 - Designing and Facilitating E-Learning Experiences for K–12 Students - Designing and Facilitating E-Learning Experiences for K–12 Students is
the first of two courses in the K-12 Learning Designer pathway. This course teaches skills needed to plan units of study that leverage virtual settings
and achieve academic standards while promoting digital citizenship. This course provides strategies for explaining essential concepts and
demonstrating examples for students in K–12 virtual settings. It also provides strategies for using technology to facilitate meaningful collaboration
among K–12 students. Finally, this course explains how to design effective practice and assessment opportunities for K–12 students in virtual settings
and provides strategies for ensuring students get the feedback they need to improve learning. Learning Technology is a prerequisite for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 267
D296 - Quality and Impact of K–12 E-Learning Solutions - Quality and Impact of K–12 E-Learning Solutions is the second of two courses in the K–12
Learning Designer pathway. This course provides an introduction to the challenges K–12 students face in e-learning environments. It also directs
learners to professional and academic resources where they can find current research related to issues and innovations learning experience designers
implement to solve challenges to K–12 students in e-learning environments. This course also outlines a quality framework for evaluating e-learning
solutions for K–12 students and provides opportunities for learners to apply that framework. Lastly, this course provides examples of how learning
analytics can be used to determine the impact of e-learning for K–12 students. Through this course, learners will analyze data about K–12 learners to
determine the impact an e-learning solution has had on engagement, effort, and learning. This course teaches learners how insights gained from data
about K–12 learners can be used to optimize e-learning. Designing E-Learning Experiences for K–12 students is a prerequisite for this course.
D297 - Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults - Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults is the first of two courses in the adult learning
designer pathway. This course teaches best practices for supporting adult learners as they acquire knowledge and learn new skills and dispositions.
This course explains effective approaches to designing learning experiences for adult learners that are collaborative, experiential, and transformative
in nature. This course also explores problem-based and competency-based approaches to designing learning experiences for adults. Each evidence-
based approach is defined and supported by theory and research. The course also includes best practices for designing each type of learning
experience and provides real examples of each approach. Learning Technology is a prerequisite for this course.
D298 - Quality and Impact of Adult E-Learning Solutions - Quality and Impact of Adult E-Learning Solutions is the second of two courses in the Adult
Learning Designer pathway. This course introduces the issues learning experience designers often encounter when designing e-learning experiences
for adults. It also directs learners to resources about current research related to issues and innovations in designing online learning experiences for
adults. This course also outlines a quality framework for evaluating e-learning solutions for adults and provides opportunities for learners to apply that
framework. Lastly, this course provides examples of how learning analytics can be used to determine the impact of e-learning solutions for adults.
Learners will analyze dashboard data and determine the impact an e-learning solution has had on learner engagement, effort, and learning and how
insights gained from data about learners and the learning experience can be used to optimize learning and the environments in which it occurs.
Designing E-Learning Experiences for Adults is a prerequisite for this course.
D299 - Learning Experience Design Lab - Learning Experience Design Lab requires learners to apply foundational learning experience design
strategies to create an instructional solution in the form of an e-learning module. In the course, learners will identify an instructional problem and then
design and develop a functional prototype of an e-learning solution. Learning Experience Design Lab provides an environment for learners to apply
foundational knowledge and skills, experiment with various e-learning design tools and techniques, provide helpful quality feedback to peers, and
receive quality feedback from peers about their own e-learning module. Finally, Learning Experience Design Lab teaches the importance of obtaining
user feedback and incorporating that feedback to continuously improve the learning experience. Degree-seeking learners must complete the Learning
Experience Design foundations series and two pathway courses prior to completing this course.
D300 - Identifying Learner Needs and a Research Problem - Identifying Learner Needs and a Research Problem is the first of three capstone courses
in the program. This course provides an introduction to design-based research and focuses specifically on the first two phases of the design-based
research process: identifying and analyzing the learning problem and reviewing the literature. This course also requires that learners continue applying
Design Thinking as they empathize with learners and define the instructional problem that their research will help them understand and address.
Finally, this course teaches learners how to conduct a literature review to determine what research has already been done and what is unknown about
their research topic. Learning Experience Design Lab is a prerequisite for this course.
D301 - Developing an E-Learning Solution and Research Methodology - Developing an E-Learning Solution and Research Methodology is the second
of three capstone courses in the program. This course focuses on the next two phases of the design-based research process: designing and
developing an e-learning solution and designing a research methodology to test how well the solution addressed the instructional problem. This course
also requires that learners continue applying Design Thinking as they ideate potential solutions to the instructional problem and begin prototyping a
module of instruction. Finally, this course teaches learners how to design research studies that ensure the safety of human subjects and the ethical
collection, storage, and reporting of data. The course Identifying Learner Needs and a Research Problem is a prerequisite for this course.
D302 - Implementing and Evaluating E-Learning Solutions - Implementing and Evaluating E-Learning Solutions is the third of three capstone courses
in the program. This course focuses on the final steps of the Design-Based Research process: implement, test, refine, reflect, and report. This course
also requires that learners continue applying Design Thinking as they test and refine the solution identified during the prototyping phase. The course
requires learners to test and refine their implementation strategies, use data to evaluate the effectiveness of their e-learning solution, redesign or
enhance their e-learning design based on their interpretation of the data, and summarize their design-based action research study. Developing an E-
Learning Solution and Research Methodology is a prerequisite for this course.
D303 - Azure Fundamentals - Azure Fundamentals provides the learner with skills needed to describe the following concepts: cloud concepts; core
Azure services; core solutions and management tools on Azure; general security and network security features; identity, governance, privacy, and
compliance features; and Azure cost management and Service Level Agreements. Learners will gain foundational knowledge of cloud services and
how those services are provided with Microsoft Azure. This course is intended for students who are just beginning to work with cloud-based solutions
and services or are new to Azure. Competency in this course is demonstrated by successfully completing the Microsoft Azure Fundamentals
certification exam (AZ-900). There are no prerequisites to this course.
D304 - Azure DevOps Solutions - Azure DevOps Solutions provides the learner with skills to accomplish the following technical tasks: Designing and
implementing strategies for collaboration, code, infrastructure, source control, security, compliance, continuous integration, testing, delivery,
monitoring, and feedback. This course expects candidates to have intermediate-level skills for administering Azure and understand Azure development
and DevOps processes. The following courses are prerequisites: Networks and Security—Foundations; Networks; Networks and
Security—Applications; Cloud Foundations; Cloud Platform Solutions; Azure Fundamentals; and Azure Developer Associate.
D305 - Azure Data Engineer - Azure Data Engineer prepares the learner for integrating, transforming, and consolidating data from various structured
and unstructured data systems into structures that are suitable for building analytics solutions. Learners will be provided with skills to accomplish the
following technical tasks: design and implement data storage, design and develop data processing, design and implement data security, and monitor
and optimize data storage and data processing. Candidates must have solid knowledge of data processing languages, such as SQL, Python, or Scala,
and they need to understand parallel processing and data architecture patterns. The following courses are prerequisites: Introduction to Programming
in Python, Azure Fundamentals, and Azure Developer Associate.
D306 - Azure Developer Associate - Azure Developer Associate provides the learner with subject matter knowledge in designing, building, testing, and
maintaining cloud applications and services on Microsoft Azure. Learners will be provided with the ability to program in a language supported by Azure
and proficiency in Azure SDKs, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, data storage options, data connections, APIs, app authentication and authorization,
compute and container deployment, debugging, performance tuning, and monitoring. The following course is a prerequisite: Azure Fundamentals.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 268
D308 - Mobile Application Development (Android) - Mobile Application Development introduces students to programming for mobile devices using a
software development kit (SDK). Students with previous knowledge of programming will learn how to install and use an SDK, build a basic mobile
application, build a mobile application using a graphical user interface (GUI), adapt applications to different mobile devices, save data, execute and
debug mobile applications using emulators, and deploy a mobile application.
D311 - Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach - Microbiology with Lab: A Fundamental Approach explores the science that microorganisms
are everywhere, and they have positive and negative effects on the community. The course examines the structure and function of microorganisms,
disease transmission and progression, and immune responses and other interventions, and it identifies key global diseases. The course consists of an
introduction and four major sections. Each section includes learning opportunities through readings, videos, and other relevant resources. Assessment
activities with feedback also provide opportunities for students to check their learning, practice, and show how well they understand course content. To
assist students in developing an applied, evidence-based understanding of microbiology, this course integrates several lab experiments to help
determine the specific characteristic of an unknown microbial sample and a treatment plan. Because the course is self-paced, students may move
through the material as quickly or as slowly as needed to gain proficiency in the four competencies that will be covered in the final assessment.
Students who have no prior knowledge of or experience with this topic can expect to spend 48–60 hours on the course content. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D312 - Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab - This is Anatomy and Physiology I, a six-section, 4 CU course that enables students to develop an
understanding of the relationships between the structures and function of the integumentary, skeletal, muscular, nervous and endocrine systems in the
human body. This course will involve laboratory activities, simulated dissections, textbook material, models, and diagrams. Because the course is self-
paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the four competencies
covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 40–60 hours on the course content.
D313 - Anatomy and Physiology II with Lab - This is Anatomy and Physiology II, a six section, four CEU course that enables students to develop an
understanding of the relationships between the structures and functions of the cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, urinary, reproductive, and
lymphatic systems in the human body. This course will involve laboratory activities, simulated dissections, textbook material, models, and diagrams.
Because the course is self-paced, you may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as you need to, with the goal of demonstrating
proficiency in the four competencies covered in the final assessment. If you have no prior knowledge of this material, you can expect to spend 40–60
hours on the course content.
D314 - Essentials of Academic Writing - The learner will explore professional communication by applying the principles of academic writing to their
discipline. Learners will incorporate these skills into the development of an evidence-based scholarly paper in their specialty area. As learners develop
a scholarly paper, they will acquire a deeper understanding of the research topic selected and analyze whether initiatives and interventions have been
effective or ineffective.
D315 - Network and Security - Foundations - Network and Security - Foundations introduces learners to the basic network systems and concepts
related to networking technologies. Learners will gain skills in applying network security concepts for business continuity, data access, and
confidentiality, and in identifying solutions for compliance with security guidance.
D316 - IT Foundations - IT Foundations provides learners with an understanding of personal computer components and their functions in a desktop
system; a knowledge of computer data storage and retrieval; and skills in classifying, installing, configuring, optimizing, upgrading, and troubleshooting
printers, laptops, portable devices, operating systems, networks, and system security. This course also gives learners the ability to recommend
appropriate tools, diagnostic procedures, preventative maintenance, and troubleshooting techniques for personal computer components in a desktop
system; strategies for identifying, preventing, and reporting safety hazards and environmental or human accidents in technological environments; and
effective communication skills for interacting with colleagues and clients, including job-related professional behavior. The course prepares learners for
the CompTIA A+ Core 1 certification exam.
D317 - IT Applications - IT Applications introduces skills in identifying operating systems and their configurations and in implementing security
principles across devices and networks. Learners will also gain skills in troubleshooting software, security, and malware issues, and in implementing
basic operational procedures in documentation, change management, compliance, and communication. The course will introduce basic disaster
recovery and business continuity procedures, scripting basics, and remote access technology solutions. The course prepares learners for the
CompTIA A+ Core 2 certification exam.
D318 - Cloud Applications - Cloud Applications prepares learners for the CompTIA Cloud+ certification exam. Learners will gain skills in designing
cloud infrastructure and services and in recommending cloud security solutions, policies, and procedures. The course will also introduce skills in
deploying cloud solutions for storage, networking, and security, and in managing cloud operations with processes, procedures, and improvements.
Learners will also gain skills in troubleshooting cloud services issues in networking, security, and performance.
D319 - AWS Cloud Architecture - AWS Cloud Architecture examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively design structured cloud
environments. Through practical application, students will gain experience in designing control measures for resilient architectures with cloud solutions
and concepts, and to design high-performing and scalable architectures for software performance workloads. Students will also learn skills in designing
security policies and access for cloud applications and architectures, and designing cost optimized storage, database and network architectures based
on situational feedback.
D320 - Managing Cloud Security - Managing Cloud Security prepares learners to safeguard cloud data with identity and access management and to
implement secure solutions in cloud service models. Learners will be introduced to skills in identifying security policies and procedures for cloud
applications and in implementing operational capabilities, procedures, and training in relation to organizational needs. Learners will also gain skills in
conducting risk analysis and risk management in alignment with disaster recovery and business continuity plans and in identifying legal, compliance,
and ethical concerns.
D321 - AWS Developer - AWS Developer examines the skills and knowledge needed to effectively implement automated and continuous testing
processes for software deployments with cloud solutions. Students will learn to design software with Amazon Web Services (AWS), software
development kits (SDKs), and command line interface (CLI), and to implement authentication, encryption, and authorization within an AWS
environment. Students will also learn to design cloud service deployments with AWS infrastructure services, platform services, and features. Students
will learn skills to monitor automated testing for quality control and to perform root cause analysis on testing or production failures. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D322 - Introduction to IT - Introduction to IT examines information technology as a discipline and the various roles and functions of the IT department
as business support. Students are presented with various IT disciplines, including systems and services, network and security, scripting and
programming, data management, and business of IT, with a survey of technologies in every area and how they relate to each other and to the
business.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 269
D324 - Business of IT - Project Management - In this course, students will build on industry standard concepts, techniques, and processes to develop
a comprehensive foundation for project management activities. During a project's life cycle, students will develop the critical skills necessary to initiate,
plan, execute, monitor, control, and close a project. Students will apply best practices in areas such as scope management, resource allocation,
project planning, project scheduling, quality control, risk management, performance measurement, and project reporting. This course prepares
students for the following certification exam: CompTIA Project+.
D325 - Networks - Networks introduces skills in configuring networking components and a network infrastructure. Learners will gain skills in optimizing
network operations for availability, performance, and security, and in troubleshooting network issues. The course prepares learners for the CompTIA
Network+ certification exam. Network and Security - Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
D326 - Advanced Data Management - Advanced Data Management enables learners to extract and analyze raw data. Skillful data management
allows organizations to discover and explore data in ways that uncover trends, issues, and their root causes. In turn, businesses are better equipped to
capitalize on opportunities and more accurately plan for the future. As organizations continue to extract larger and more detailed volumes of data, the
need is rapidly growing for IT professionals who possess data management skills. The skills gained in this course include performing advanced
relational data modeling as well as designing data marts, lakes, and warehouses. This course will empower learners with the skills to build business
logic at the database layer to employ more stability and higher data-processing speeds. Learners will gain the ability to automate common tasks to
summarize and integrate data as they prepare it for analysis. Data Management - Foundations is a prerequisite for this course.
D329 - Network and Security - Applications - Network and Security - Applications prepares learners for the CompTIA Security+ certification exam. The
course introduces learners to skills in identifying threats, attacks, and vulnerabilities to organizational security. The learner will also gain skills in
designing security solutions for enterprise infrastructures and architectures, as well as in implementing security solutions across hardware,
applications, and network services. Learners will be able to execute operations and incident response with tools, policies, forensics, and mitigation
techniques, and to analyze information security controls, governance, risk, and compliance.
D330 - Data Systems Administration - Data System Administration provides learners with foundational skills to become a Database Administrator
(DBA). This course illustrates how DBAs ensure businesses are able to leverage significant data to increase profitability and support key business
functions. Topics include database management tools, account administration, recovery procedures, and maintenance through upgrades and
migrations.
D332 - Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis - Penetration Testing and Vulnerability Analysis introduces learners to the skills necessary to
perform penetration testing and vulnerability management within an organization. The course covers widely used penetration testing techniques and
tools that focus on planning and scoping, information gathering, vulnerability identification, and attacks and exploits. In addition, it offers hands-on
experience and a focus on penetration testing engagement plans.
D333 - Ethics in Technology - Ethics in Technology examines the ethical considerations of technology use in the 21st century and introduces students
to a decision-making process informed by ethical frameworks. Students will study specific cases related to important topics such as surveillance, social
media, hacking, data manipulation, plagiarism and piracy, artificial intelligence, responsible innovation, and the digital divide. This course has no
prerequisites.
D334 - Introduction to Cryptography - Introduction to Cryptography introduces skills in applying cryptography principles in alignment with organizational
and information security guidelines. Students will determine requirements and techniques for cryptanalysis. This course builds skills in implementing
encryption methods with symmetric and asymmetric algorithms.
D335 - Introduction to Programming in Python - Introduction to Programming in Python introduces skills in creating Python scripts with basic
programming concepts. Learners will be able to create control flow with functions and loops, and to implement code with packages, modules, and
libraries.
D336 - Business of IT - Applications - Business of IT - Applications examines Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL®) terminology,
structure, policies, and concepts. Focusing on the management of information technology (IT) infrastructure, development, and operations, learners
will explore the core principles of ITIL practices for service management to prepare them for careers as IT professionals, business managers, and
business process owners. This course has no prerequisites.
D337 - Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure - Internet of Things (IoT) and Infrastructure introduces students to emerging technologies connecting
the internet to a variety of physical objects. The course reviews the business requirements for sensors and securely
storing, transmitting, and processing the data they generate. As new use cases emerge, ethical and privacy issues become relevant aspects of
business development. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D338 - Cloud Platform Solutions - Cloud Platform Solutions examines skills in identifying cloud system administration tasks related to user access
groups, single sign-on (SSO), and server deployments. Students will gain skills in determining machine access for cloud storage solutions and in
explaining the configuration of virtual machines for availability, scalability, performance, and security. Students will also be introduced to implementing
virtual networking services and machine image monitoring. The following courses are prerequisites: Network and Security - Foundations, Network and
Security - Applications, Networks, and Cloud Applications.
D339 - Technical Communication - Technical Communication introduces skills in editing professional communications, evaluating the impact of
professional etiquette in digital environments, and in creating artifacts that are persuasive, informational, and research-based. The course also
introduces skills in delivering multimedia presentations using professional verbal communication skills.
D340 - Cyber Defense and Countermeasures - Traditional defenses—such as firewalls, security protocols, and encryption—sometimes fail to stop
attackers determined to access and compromise data. This course provides the fundamental skills to handle and respond to computer security
incidents in an information system. The course addresses various underlying principles and techniques for detecting and responding to current and
emerging computer security threats. Students learn how to leverage intelligence and threat detection techniques; analyze and interpret data; identify
and address vulnerabilities; suggest preventative measures; effectively respond to and recover from incidents; and handle various types of incidents,
risk assessment methodologies, and various laws and policies related to incident handling. This course prepares students for the CompTIA
Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) certification exam. The following courses are prerequisites: Networks and Network and Security – Applications.
D341 - Cloud Deployment and Operations - Cloud Deployment and Operations provides students with technical skills in the deployment, management,
and operations of cloud services. This course allows students to examine stability and scalability, backup and recovery processes, and deployment
best practices. Provisioning of cloud resources, monitoring of cloud resources, and managing connectivity are also examined. The following courses
are prerequisites: Cloud Applications and AWS Cloud Architecture.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 270
D342 - Cloud Computing Capstone - The Cloud Computing Capstone offers learners opportunities to demonstrate the culmination of their skills
learned within the Cloud Computing program. In this course, learners will show their skills by defining system components and creating implementation
plans for cloud solutions. The course also offers learners ways to demonstrate their skills in determining configurations for API, performing system
administration tasks, and creating test plans for cloud solutions.
D343 - Foundations of Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice - Foundations of Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice guides students
through the process of learning about mental health and mental illness. This course presents the history of psychiatric care, along with cultural
components that influence individual attitudes and behaviors. This course introduces conceptual models and theories related to practice that provide
the basis for understanding the development of psychopathology to apply appropriate therapeutic strategies. This course includes clinical practice
guidelines using the DSM-5-TR (Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) as a basis for diagnostic consistency across the lifespan. This
course also includes relevant advanced practice issues, legal and ethical components, and barriers to practice that a mental health psychiatric nurse
practitioner may encounter. Various psychological responses to stress are also discussed. The following courses are prerequisites: All MSN Core
courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced
Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D344 - The Assessment and Diagnostic Process of Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner Practice - The Assessment and Diagnostic Processes for Advanced
Psychiatric Mental Health Practice guides students when examining determinants to the role of the psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner. This
course guides students in building a therapeutic relationship with patients through interviewing skills, conducting a structured assessment, milieu,
types of therapy, and various care strategies, including technology usage. This course guides students through exploring their leadership role in
collaborating with the interprofessional community as a mental health nurse practitioner. Pathways of quality improvement, practice evaluation, and
healthcare reform are also considered. The following courses are prerequisites: All MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced
Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D345 - Psychopharmacology for Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice - Psychopharmacology for Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Practice
explains the knowledge of advanced pharmacotherapeutics and why it is important to safely and appropriately prescribe agents to manage common
chronic and acute mental health problems of diverse populations. This includes differences between experimental and clinical psychopharmacology.
This course covers the principles of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in administration, along with patient education. This course discusses
factors of addiction and substance use, including prevalence, clinical manifestations, and treatment of various disorders. Collaborative clinical services,
such as group counseling, therapeutic communities, and medication support, are explored. The foundational information in psychopharmacology in
this course guides students in planning individualized mental health drug management for individuals across the life span based on setting, context,
and professional ethics. The following courses are prerequisites: all MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse,
Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D346 - Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of Adults and Older Adults Across Care Settings - Advanced Psychiatric Care of Adults and Older
Adults Across Care Settings prepares students to provide evidence-based mental healthcare for adults, older adults, and families. This course guides
students through the application of age and developmentally appropriate advanced practice health assessment knowledge and diagnostic reasoning
skills for adults, older adults, and families experiencing complex mental health issues. This course helps students develop treatment plans using
psychotherapeutic treatment modalities, psychopharmacology, and community resources to manage specific mental health disorders for adults, older
adults, and families. This course also includes the influences of family dynamics and societal norms on mental health progression and recovery. The
following courses are prerequisites: All MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for
the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D347 - Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of Children and Adolescents Across Care Settings - Advanced Psychiatric Mental Health Care of
Children and Adolescents across Care Settings prepares students to provide evidence-based mental healthcare for children, adolescents, and
families. This course guides students through the application of age and developmentally appropriate advanced practice health assessment
knowledge and diagnostic reasoning skills for children, adolescents, and families experiencing complex mental health issues. This course helps
students develop treatment plans to manage specific mental health disorders through the use of psychotherapeutic treatment modalities,
psychopharmacology, and community resources. This course also covers the influences of family dynamics and societal norms on mental health
progression and recovery. The following are prerequisites for this course: all MSN Core courses, Advanced Pathophysiology for the Advanced Practice
Nurse, Advanced Pharmacology for the Advanced Practice Nurse, and Advanced Health Assessment for the Advanced Practice Nurse.
D348 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship I - Through precepted clinical experiences, the learner will develop the
competencies needed to provide comprehensive and holistic mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. In the
precepted clinical setting, the learner will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver consumer-
centered mental health care. Therefore, the learner will conduct advanced mental health assessments and utilize the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, psychopharmacology, psychotherapy, and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy
in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish mental health plans of care that include consumer and population
preferences. All MSN Core Courses, NP Core courses, and PMHNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
D349 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship II - Through precepted clinical experiences, the learner will develop
competencies needed to provide comprehensive and holistic mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. In the
precepted clinical setting, the learner will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver consumer-
centered mental health care. Therefore, the learner will conduct advanced mental health assessments and utilize the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, psychopharmacology, psychotherapy and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy
in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish mental health plans of care that include consumer and population
preferences. All MSN Core Courses, NP Core courses, and PMHNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
D350 - Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Clinical Internship III - Through precepted clinical experiences, the learner will develop
competencies needed to provide comprehensive and holistic mental health care to individuals, families, and communities across the lifespan. In the
precepted clinical setting, the learner will combine competencies developed in preparatory advanced practice coursework to deliver consumer-
centered mental health care. Therefore, the learner will conduct advanced mental health assessments and utilize the competencies of advanced
pathophysiology, psychopharmacology, psychotherapy and health promotion for individuals and populations across the life span to build self-efficacy
in individuals and groups, to determine correct diagnoses, and to establish mental health plans of care that include consumer and population
preferences. All MSN Core Courses, NP Core courses, and PMHNP Specialty courses must be completed before taking this course.
D351 - Functions of Human Resource Management - This course provides an introduction to the management of human resources, which is the
function within an organization that focuses on recruitment, management, and direction for the people who work in the organization. Students will be
introduced to topics such as strategic workforce planning and talent acquisition; compensation and benefits; training and development; employee and
labor relations; and occupational health, safety, and security.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 271
D352 - Employment and Labor Law - Employment and Labor Law reviews the legal and regulatory framework surrounding employment, including
recruitment, termination, and discrimination law. The course topics include employment-at-will, EEO, ADA, OSHA, and other laws affecting the
workplace. Students will learn to analyze current trends and issues in employment law and apply this knowledge to manage risk in employment
relationships effectively. Functions of Human Resources and Introduction to Human Resources are recommended prior to Employment and Labor Law.
D353 - Strategic Training and Development - Strategic Training and Development focuses on the development of human capital (i.e., growing talent)
by applying effective learning theories and practices for training and developing employees. The course will help develop essential skills for improving
and empowering organizations through high-caliber training and development processes.
D354 - Talent Acquisition - Talent Acquisition focuses on building a highly skilled workforce that meets organizational staffing needs by using effective
strategies and tactics for recruiting, selecting, and onboarding employees. The learner will develop competency in critical skills related to talent
acquisition, such as workforce planning, developing strategic recruiting plans, and ensuring effective selection strategies. Talent acquisition is a top
skill for HR professionals, and successful talent acquisition practices lend to individual, team, and organizational success.
D355 - Total Rewards - This course develops competence in the design and implementation of total rewards approaches in an organization. The total
rewards perspective integrates tangible rewards (e.g., salary, bonuses) with employee benefits (e.g., health insurance, retirement plan) and intangible
rewards (e.g., location, work environment). This perspective allows learners to use all forms of rewards fairly and effectively to enable job satisfaction
and organizational performance.
D356 - HR Technology - HR Technology focuses on the usage of technology for strategic human resource management. The learner will develop
competency in critical skills related to analyzing the value and application of the different types of human resource information systems (HRIS),
managing HRIS implementations, electronic human resource management, and future trends and application of HR technology. HR professionals
must be familiar with HR technology in order to provide effective and efficient HR practices for their organization and recommendations to leadership to
invest in technology. An understanding of HR technology is also an in-demand skill for HR professionals across all industries.
D357 - Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion examines the importance and impact of diversity in organizations through an
understanding of the theoretical, background, and legislative foundations of diversity. This course will explore specific groups and categories of
diversity, as well as global diversity and career paths in diversity.
D358 - Global Human Resource Management - Global Human Resource Management explores the rapidly changing field of international human
resource management (HRM) and examines a global perspective in relation to staffing, personnel management, strategy, and communications in a
cross-cultural context. This course will help learners examine critical skills such as application of international employment law, labor standards, and
ethics, as well as international application of human resources (HR) best practices in areas such as employee relations, global talent management,
and future trends of international HRM. These skills lend to the success of HR professionals working to support organizations that operate in or within
an international context and cross-culturally, as well as expanding the skillsets for those HR professionals interested in seeking a career as a global
HR professional. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D359 - Agile HR - Agile HR explores the concepts of Agile operations and Agile project management from the human resource management
perspective. Learners will focus on design thinking, building value for employees, change management, adaptability, and strategic prioritization as part
of the Agile skills in this course. Adaptability and resilience, while delivering value in a constantly changing world, are all critical skills for successful HR
professionals and leaders.
D360 - HRM Capstone - The learner synthesizes skills from across the human resource management (HRM) industry to demonstrate the ability to
participate in and contribute value to the HR field.
D361 - Business Simulation - This course ties together all the skills and knowledge covered in the business courses and allows the student to prove
their mastery of the competencies by applying them in a simulated business environment. This course will help take the student's knowledge and skills
from the theoretical to applicable.
D362 - Corporate Finance - Corporate Finance is about business structures that set the environment for the day-to-day operations of a business. This
course teaches learners about the common forms of business structures, the factors that business owners consider when they choose which structure
to use, and the roles of shareholders and stakeholders. This course also teaches that managing the financial function involves capitalizing the
company and evaluating capital budget techniques, including those that use the time value of money. Through this course, learners will learn how to
calculate the cost to finance a business using the weighted average cost of capital, how to value stocks and bonds, and how to determine the value of
the firm. The prerequisites for this course include Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting, Finance Skills for Managers, Applied Probability
and Statistics, Principles of Economics, and Financial Statement Analysis.
D363 - Personal Finance - Personal Finance provides learners with an introduction to the discipline of finance from the perspective of the person, or
family, rather than from the viewpoint of a business. In this course, learners will gain an understanding of financial literacy concepts, including personal
budgeting and how to apply financial principles to achieve personal financial goals. Learners will identify various strategies to manage risks, to
enhance postretirement income, and to accumulate and transfer wealth. Topics include record keeping, credit principles, cash flow, investment
philosophy, monetary asset management, housing, and estate planning. This course provides learners with a general overview of personal finance and
acts as a preview course for the finance major. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D364 - Financial Management I - This course covers basic financial management principles primarily targeted to the operations part of a business. The
learner gains an understanding about the basic finance organization in an enterprise in support of the company's primary goal to increase corporate
value for shareholders in an ethical way. Tools a finance professional might use in managing the cash and current assets are discussed along with
cash budgeting and financial strategic planning. The Dupont equation is reviewed as the basis for analyzing and improving the performance of the
enterprise to improve value. The learner will acquire knowledge about how forecasting models and financial instruments are used to optimize the
working capital investment portfolio. Prerequisite for Financial Management I is Corporate Finance.
D365 - Financial Management II - This course covers capital budgeting and long-term funding strategies. The course will delve into more advanced
financial management principles primarily targeted toward corporate investment and capital planning. This course also explores an enterprise’s capital
structure and how equity and long-term debt are used to finance and sustain long-term fixed asset projects. Decision methods, such as net present
value, internal rate of return, and payback period, are discussed as techniques a finance professional might use in identifying and structuring the
optimal capital budget. The learner will gain an understanding about equity capital, will assess financial markets, and will examine the differences in
shareholder classifications and bonds. The course will teach how the dividend policy is devised and discover how the organization uses its corporate
investment strategy to increase not only shareholder value but also corporate value for the shareholder. Prerequisites for Financial Management II are
D196, Principles of Financial and Managerial Accounting; D076, Finance Skills for Managers; D363, Personal Finance; D362, Corporate Finance;
D364, Financial Management I; and D366, Financial Statement Analysis.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 272
D366 - Financial Statement Analysis - Financial Statement Analysis discusses the concepts and provides tools for financial analysts to evaluate the
financial elements of the firm as well as external factors to ultimately arrive at a valuation. You will learn a process to analyze data and the concepts
where you can determine the quality of that data. This process provides a structure where ratios and company results are not looked at individually but
as a whole in determining the worth of an enterprise, leading to an analysis-based valuation of the firm.
D367 - Innovation in Finance - Innovation in Finance provides students with an introduction to the technologies and product solutions that have
disrupted the financial services industry. In this course, students will learn about the emerging financial technologies contributing to the evolution of
lending, payments, wealth management, financial planning, and the insurance industry. This course will examine the role financial technology
(FinTech) firms serve as financial disruptors and how these organizations are developed and supported, from start-up to scale. Throughout the course,
students will identify the impact emerging technologies and FinTechs have on businesses, individuals, and society as a whole. Topics include
emerging technology products and services, incubators, accelerator programs, FinTech ecosystems, and technologies that enable and facilitate
disruption by emerging technologies. This course provides students with a general overview of financial innovation and serves as an integral
component of the finance major. D076: Principles of Finance is a prerequisite for this course.
D368 - Enterprise Risk Management - Enterprise Risk Management provides learners with an introduction to the discipline of risk management from
the perspective of an organization rather than from the viewpoint of a person. In this course, learners will learn risk management concepts, including
risk tolerance, risk appetite, and how to utilize governance and compliance resources to achieve an effective risk management strategy. Throughout
this course, learners will determine various strategies to identify, assess, monitor, and control risks and other threats to an organization. Topics include
approaches to risk mitigation, generally accepted frameworks and standards adopted to manage risk, current environmental, societal, and governance
matters of risk interest to an organization, disaster recovery plans, and insurance products.
D369 - Finance Capstone - This course is designed as a synthesis of the knowledge learners have acquired throughout the program. The course
culminates in a performance assessment that requires learners to apply the competencies gained throughout the finance program. In this course,
learners will draw upon the concepts and techniques introduced in the undergraduate finance program to perform a comprehensive financial analysis
of an enterprise. In completing the course, learners will perform analyses with spreadsheet software to simulate a real-world experience of a finance
career professional.
D370 - IT Leadership Foundations - IT Leadership Foundations is an introductory course that provides students with an overview of organizational
structures, communication, and leadership styles specific to information technology in organizations. It also introduces students to some of the power
skills that help make successful IT professionals, including time management, problem solving, and emotional intelligence. Students in this course
explore their own strengths and passions in relation to the field. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D372 - Introduction to Systems Thinking - Introduction to Systems Thinking provides learners with the skills required to engage in a holistic systems-
based approach to analyzing complex problems and solutions. This course introduces the foundational concepts and principles of systems thinking
and provides opportunities to use a systems thinking approach to analyze and evaluate real-world case studies. The course will culminate with using
systems thinking to develop a solution to an authentic complex problem. This course has no prerequisites, but general education math (C955 or C957)
is preferred. Because the course is self-paced, learners may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as needed, with the goal of
demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If learners have no prior knowledge of this material, they can
expect to spend 30 to 40 hours on the course content.
D373 - Marketing in the Digital Era - Marketing in the Digital Era examines the marketing skills needed to be an effective marketer in the 21st century.
This course provides a company and consumer perspective to learn how consumer value is created while achieving organizational goals. Learners will
gain knowledge in the core areas of marketing, including branding and products, consumers, communications, and technology. This course introduces
learners to strategic marketing tools used to develop effective strategies for a relevant target market. Marketing in the Digital Era teaches learners
about emerging topics, such as marketing automation, artificial intelligence, and data-driven communications, as well as skills needed to continue
evolving as a successful marketing professional in the dynamic, ever-changing marketing environment.
D374 - Market Research - Market Research provides learners with a knowledge of the role of marketing research in strategic decision-making.
Marketers need to systematically collect and analyze data to develop insights and make decisions. Learners demonstrate proficiency in the
fundamentals of market research by practicing statistical methods for analyzing and acting on market data. This course teaches sampling techniques,
survey development, data analysis, ethical considerations, and hypothesis testing. Learners will apply their knowledge using a market research
simulation. Emphasis is placed on the interpretation and use of results to demonstrate how to communicate information. In this course, learners will
also develop awareness for continually monitoring emerging and competitive trends given the dynamic digital marketing landscape.
D375 - Marketing Communications and Storytelling - Marketing Communications and Storytelling introduces learners to the principles of integrative
marketing communications with an emphasis on storytelling and creativity. Storytelling skills enable marketers to build relationships by making
connections with their intended audience. Digital storytelling integrates the use of technology to create a cohesive narrative across various platforms
that evokes emotions and feelings about a brand. These efforts can lead to customer acquisition or conversion outcomes. In this course, the creative
storytelling process begins with a clear SMART objective that drives strategy development, the creative direction, and the execution of an integrative
marketing communication campaign. Campaign types, media channels, messages, timelines, and market development considerations are taught
within the context of both digital and traditional application. Learners will also have the opportunity to complete the HubSpot Inbound Marketing
certification to learn industry best practices and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D376 - Product, Price, and Customer Experience - Product, Price, & Customer Experience teaches core marketing concepts used to create integrative
marketing strategies that meet the needs of an organization and its customers. This course teaches topics of new product development, product
management, value proposition, and customer experience management. The voice of the customer is taught to ensure marketers create a customer-
centric culture within their organization to meet the needs, wants, and preference of their target market. Customer experience management practices
are key focal points of this course to ensure meaningful customer interactions across the entire customer journey.
D377 - Digital Marketing Foundations - Digital Marketing Foundations provides learners with knowledge in the dynamic and evolving field of marketing
that uses the internet and digital technologies to reach customers. This course provides foundational knowledge in digital marketing disciplines,
including social media marketing, content marketing, marketing automation, search engine optimization (SEO), paid search (PPC), conversion rate
optimization (CRO), mobile marketing, and web analytics. Learners explore how a digital marketing strategy is developed and executed, along with
how digital marketing is integrated within an organization's overall strategy. This course provides learners with the opportunity to complete the HubSpot
Marketing Software certification to learn marketing automation software that is used in industry to assist marketers in their digital marketing execution.
Emphasis throughout the course is placed on industry best practices, and the course content aligns with the Online Marketing Certified Associate
(OMCA) certification to prepare students for this third-party certification.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 273
D378 - Digital Marketing Science - Digital Marketing Science provides learners with knowledge in the dynamic and evolving field of marketing that uses
the internet and digital technologies to reach customers. This course provides foundational knowledge in digital marketing disciplines, including social
media marketing, email marketing, content marketing, marketing automation, search engine optimization (SEO), paid search (PPC), conversion rate
optimization (CRO), mobile marketing, and web analytics. Learners explore how a digital marketing strategy is developed and executed, along with
how digital marketing is integrated within an organization's overall strategy. This course provides learners with the opportunity to complete the HubSpot
Marketing Software certification to learn marketing automation software that is used in industry to assist marketers in their digital marketing execution.
Emphasis throughout the course is placed on industry best practices, and the course content aligns with the Online Marketing Certified Associate
(OMCA) certification to prepare students for this third-party certification.
D379 - Social Media Marketing - Social Media Marketing teaches learners about social media from a business perspective and how social media can
be used to increase a company’s brand awareness, generate leads, and build meaningful relationships with customers. Throughout this course,
learners will develop a social media marketing strategy across various social platforms to create and distribute valuable and relevant content to
specific audiences. Social Media Marketing teaches learners influencer marketing, employee advocacy, social selling, and social media analytics.
Learners will gain hands-on experience using a simulation to create targeted social media advertisements, perform demographic targeting, implement
social media content promotion strategies, and schedule content. In this course, learners will have the opportunity to complete HubSpot's Social Media
Marketing certification to learn industry best practices in social media marketing and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D380 - Email Marketing - Email Marketing examines the principles and techniques used to effectively manage email marketing campaigns. Email is
used daily in both personal and business settings to communicate with others. In this course, learners will examine industry best practices of how to
use email marketing as a digital strategy to achieve marketing goals. Learners will explore how to design an email marketing strategy, how to use
email marketing for lead generation, how to design a lead nurture campaign, and how automation is used to manage email marketing distribution and
campaigns. This course provides learners with an opportunity to explore how effective email messages are crafted and distributed. Industry best
practices will be explored and learners have the opportunity to complete the HubSpot Email Marketing certification to enhance marketability within the
marketing profession.
D381 - E-Commerce and Marketing Analytics - E-Commerce and Marketing Analytics teaches learners how to sell online, how to reach customers
online, and how to measure campaign and website performance. Businesses and consumers actively engage in buying and selling products over the
internet. Learners gain skills through the practical application of building and optimizing a Shopify website designed to promote and sell products to
customers. The course explores the latest technology platforms with an emphasis on Google applications for hands-on experience. Learners have the
opportunity to complete the Google Search Ads certification to gain skills used in practice and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D382 - Digital Marketing Analytics - Digital Marketing Analytics teaches learners how to identify data sources, collect and analyze data, and manage
marketing performance. Marketing requires an understanding of analytics and application of data to inform strategic decision-making. Through the use
of a digital marketing analytics framework, measurement models, and various digital marketing technology tools, learners will analyze marketing
performance across digital paid, owned, and earned channels. The latest marketing technology tools are explored to measure and optimize results
using data-driven decisions. In this course, learners will have the opportunity to complete the Google Analytics certification to gain technical skills used
in practice and to enhance marketability within the marketing profession.
D383 - Search Engine Optimization - Search Engine Optimization, otherwise known as SEO, teaches on-page, off-page, and technical aspects of SEO
for organically improving ranking and awareness. Digital marketing requires marketers to understand online consumer search behaviors; search
engine optimization (SEO) is a key part of an organization’s digital marketing strategy. This includes processes and best practices used to increase
their visibility in search engines. Learners will discover SEO strategies focusing on website structure, search engines, keyword research and mapping,
and page-level optimization. Learners will gain practical experience using a simulation in which they will optimize ranking and visibility to consumers. In
this course, learners will have the opportunity to complete HubSpot’s SEO certification to learn industry best practices and to enhance marketability
within the marketing profession.
D384 - Marketing Experiential Capstone - Marketing Experiential Capstone is the capstone course for the program that provides learners with real-
world applications to prepare them for the marketing industry. In this course, learners will integrate and apply marketing skills gained throughout the
program by working with an organization on a marketing project. Marketers must effectively manage many relationships throughout their career with
clients and team members in an organization, an agency, or their own marketing firm. This course allows students to apply their technical knowledge
while also developing competencies in effective communication, collaboration, conflict management, project management, and time management
power skills. Learners will explore their professional goals and develop a personal branding strategy to enhance their marketability and to strategically
plan for their marketing career.
D385 - Software Security and Testing - This course prepares you to recognize security vulnerabilities in software, to plan interventions to address
security vulnerabilities where they exist, and to develop and test these interventions. The course covers topics in Web security, permissions, and
identity security; debugging; log file analysis; API security; and encryption and cryptography concepts.
D386 - Hardware and Operating Systems Essentials - Hardware and Operating Systems prepares learners for concepts in software engineering by
providing a foundation of understanding in computer architecture, the history of computing architectures, and operating systems. Additional topics
covered include hardware and software stacks and how to choose appropriate hardware and software solutions to meet both functional and non-
functional business requirements.
D387 - Advanced Java - Advanced Java refines object-oriented programming expertise and skills. You will implement multithreaded, object-oriented
code with the features of Java necessary to develop software that meets business requirements. Additionally, you will determine how to deploy
software applications using cloud services. This course requires intermediate expertise in object-oriented programming and the Java language.
D388 - Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations - Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations offers learners an overview
of the use of spreadsheet functions and methods for presenting data within spreadsheets. Learners will have the opportunity to explore features and
uses of MS Excel and apply the tools to situations they may encounter while studying in their program. They will also be introduced to real world uses
and tools to collect, organize and present data.
D389 - Learning Strategies in Higher Education - Learning Strategies in Higher Education provides students with a toolbox of skills that will support
student academic growth as they advance in their academic journey. Students will be introduced to the WGU Library; how to use it and best practices
for research strategies. Students will learn how to be professional in written communication and how to correctly use current APA format. In this
course, students also will learn about setting goals, time-management, study strategies, making and keeping appointments, professional decorum, and
test-taking skills. Learning these skills, strategies, and methods will establish an academic foundation for students to be successful in higher education.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 274
D390 - Introduction to Health and Human Services - Introduction to Health and Human Services explores representative roles and responsibilities of
health and human service professionals and key governmental entities involved in Health and Human Services delivery. The course also examines the
importance of understanding clients’ illnesses and disabilities, building trust with clients, and engagement models that promote client outcomes. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D391 - Healthcare Ecosystems - Healthcare Ecosystems examines how the aims and elements of the healthcare ecosystem can affect client and
patient outcomes. The course explores the main aims of healthcare access, affordability, and quality and how regulators, providers, producers, and
funders (such as payors or purchasers) support those aims. The course also examines insurance regulations and reimbursement procedures that
affect healthcare access and affordability and decision-making processes that support affordable, quality care for clients and communities. There are
no prerequisites for this course.
D393 - History of Healthcare in America - History of Healthcare in America will examine individuals such as Henrietta Lacks, Ryan White, Clara Barton,
and Katie Beckett, who influenced healthcare in the United States, from its inception to the present day. This course examines how specific individuals
and their contributions influenced healthcare delivery and the continued evolution of healthcare, teaching from a system or a value-based care
perspective. The course also focuses on the way healthcare interacted with culture, politics, and society throughout U.S. history and evaluates current
challenges we face in the U.S. healthcare system today. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D394 - Care for Individuals and Families - Care for Individuals and Families focuses on the holistic care of individuals, families, and populations with
multifaceted healthcare needs. This course improves critical thinking and interdisciplinary communication skills to provide information to individuals or
groups in a variety of settings. The focus of the course is on managing the transition of an individual, family, or group through a variety of healthcare
settings, which can include acute care hospitals, extended stay facilities, ambulatory care clinics, home care, outreach, or wellness. This course helps
students develop effective professional communication skills and appropriate behaviors to ensure an individual, family, or group is successful in
meeting its healthcare goals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D396 - Evidence-Based Practice for Health and Human Services - Evidence-Based Practice for Health and Human Services prepares the learner to
apply evidence-based practice (EBP) to inform healthcare recommendations in out-patient, organizational, and other public health settings. Learners
will be introduced to an EBP framework to guide them through the steps of EBP using real world scenarios. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D398 - Introduction to Pharmacology - Introduction to Pharmacology will introduce learners to medication and supplement regulations and safety
protocols. It provides an overview of the use, benefits, effects, and contraindications of commonly used drugs to treat conditions of the cardiovascular,
respiratory, endocrine, nervous, and renal body systems. It also explores the types of anti-infective, antineoplastic, psychotropic drugs, and dietary
supplements and their effects on the body.
D399 - Introduction to Gerontology - Introduction to Gerontology will introduce learners to health issues that are typically associated with the older adult
population so they can become familiar with health challenges this population may face. The learners will gain an understanding of the effects that
policy and legislation have on the older adult population. Emphasis is placed on the importance of maintaining the dignity of older adults by focusing on
cultural and communication needs, and by collaborating on care with older adults, families, and caregivers. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D400 - End-of-Life Care - End-of-Life Care focuses on the Connected Care model as it applies to the final stage of life. This course will explore ethnic
and cultural factors that affect an individual’s response to death and dying. This course will cover planning and implementing ideal interventions to help
individuals, families, and groups cope and agree on a common care goal. This course will also discuss empathy and compassion in healthcare. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D401 - Introduction to Epidemiology - Introduction to Epidemiology provides an overview of the determinants of communicable, viral, and chronic
diseases. Students also will study various other conditions and the impact to public health. Using problem-based inquiry, students will analyze real-
world public health problems by examining the distribution and patterns of data, selecting the methods to gather evidence, interpreting the information,
and analyzing the trends to support decision making. There are no prerequisites to this course, but students are highly encouraged to adhere to the
standard path, whose content is scaffolded to enhance the learning experience of this course.
D402 - Community and Public Health - Community and Public Health provides learners with an understanding of the benefits community health offers
individuals and families. The course also will identify barriers that will impact health and healthcare access, leading to improved community health.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
D404 - Healthcare Values and Ethics - Healthcare Values and Ethics requires students to synthesize an interdisciplinary approach to decision-making
as it applies to health and human services. This course explores the contemporary issues facing health professionals, which include ethics, regulations
and compliance, and handling protected healthcare information. In this course, learners will develop their ability to make ethical decisions in
collaborative care environments and working within a team. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D405 - Financial Resource Management and Healthcare Reimbursement - Financial Resource Management and Healthcare Reimbursement
examines financial practices and reimbursement types within the healthcare industry. This course covers the analysis of regulations required for health
reimbursements. This course also covers the evaluation of effective revenue cycle management, focusing on the organization’s financial stability. There
are no prerequisites for this course.
D406 - Health Literacy for the Client and Family - Health Literacy for the Client and Family helps students recognize the importance of health literacy in
overcoming healthcare barriers and creating patient-focused changes through family and patient empowerment. This course demonstrates how
education, research, and technology all integrate and serve as a foundation for students as they create effective resources to improve health literacy
for patients and families. This course helps students become advocates for their patients and their patients’ families. There are no prerequisites for this
course.
D407 - Models of Care and Healthcare Trends - Models of Care and Healthcare Trends is a course for health professionals in a variety of roles in the
health and human services industry, which examines the unique characteristics of healthcare models in the United States and emerging trends created
by social and political drivers. The course explores the evolution of healthcare models from fragmented systems to cohesive, quality-centric, and client-
focused systems. The course also focuses on innovative trends, such as access to care, telemedicine, and subsequent shifts in the continuum of care
as it relates to patient or client outcomes. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D408 - Community Relations and Leadership - Community Relations and Leadership focuses on analyzing community health and human services’
needs to create change. As emerging leaders, students will learn to engage in collaborative approaches with various stakeholders to achieve positive
outcomes. This course helps students develop their abilities to interpret community health needs assessments, make decisions, and bring
stakeholders together to advance access to health and human services. This course has no prerequisites.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 275
D409 - Health and Human Services Professional Field Experience - The Health and Human Services Professional Field Experience course provides
students with real-world experiences as a health services professional via the virtual world of simulation. The course allows students to conduct their
field experience in a variety of different contexts they will find themselves, depending on their professional career choices in the health services’
industry. All program coursework leads to this course.
This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
D410 - Health & Human Services Professional Capstone - Health Services Professional Capstone will provide learners the opportunity to demonstrate
their ability to communicate in a professional manner that supports high quality, safe client services. Learners will also engage in career and
professional development within the health and human services industry. All program coursework leads to this course.
D411 - Scripting and Automation - Scripting and Automation is the foundation for automating tasks in operating systems. Students will learn how to
create PowerShell scripts that take tedious and repetitious tasks and turn them into programs that will save time. Students will learn PowerShell, an
automation and configuration management tool based on a command-line shell and .NET Framework.
D412 - Network Analytics and Troubleshooting - Network Analytics and Troubleshooting teaches students to use network monitoring and analytics
tools and practices that are common in the workplace in order to troubleshoot and fix complex computer networks. Students will follow a customer
service model in identifying, classifying, investigating, and repairing network outages or problems. This course is designed as a hands-on experience
where students will implement these techniques in a virtual space in order to produce a secure and functional deployed network.
D413 - Telecomm and Wireless Communications - Telecomm and Wireless Communications explores the science, technologies, and standards that
enable wired and wireless data to be transmitted across different media. Topics include data encoding and decoding, and analog and digital
transmissions via wired, fiber, wireless, cellular, and satellite technologies.
D414 - Cyber Operations Fundamentals - In Cyber Operations Fundamentals, students will learn security concepts, security monitoring, host-based
analysis, network intrusion analysis, and security policies and procedures using Cisco practices and technologies. This course prepares students for
the Understanding Cisco Cybersecurity Operations Fundamentals (CBROPS) 200-201 exam.
D415 - Software Defined Networking - Software Defined Networking (SDN) represents one of the fastest growing areas of network engineering. This
course instructs learners on the SDN paradigm, which encompasses network automation, intent-based networking, and centralized network control.
This course also teaches learners to view networking from a centralized and automated perspective rather than the traditional device-by-device model
that is the legacy practice in many networks.
D416 - DevNet Fundamentals - The DevNet Fundamentals course teaches students how to automate and deploy network solutions in the Cisco
Environment. This course includes APIs, Scripting, Python programming, and software version control. This course prepares students for the Cisco
DevNet Associate (DevNet) 200-901 exam.
D417 - Network Automation and Deployment - Network Automation and Deployment leverages previous experience in networking, scripting, and
programming with the SDN paradigm. Students will create programs and scripts that automate network configuration across large networks. This
course is designed as a hands-on experience where students will implement these techniques in a virtual space in order to produce a secure and
functional deployed network.
D418 - BSNES Capstone Project - The BSNES Capstone Project consists of learners submitting a network design proposal, a virtual network
implementation, and a post-implementation report describing their experience developing and implementing the capstone project. The capstone project
and scope must be presented and approved by the capstone instructor prior to implementation in the virtual environment.
D419 - Implementing and Administering Networking Solutions - Implementing and Administering Networking Solutions expands on basic networking
concepts and covers advanced network engineering skills including: Switch and router configuration, trouble shooting and maintenance on wired and
wireless networks, Security, network automation and introduces Software Defined Networking. This course prepares students for the Cisco Certified
Network Associate (CCNA) certification exam CCNA-200-301.
D420 - Discrete Math: Logic - Discrete Math-Logic is designed to help students develop competence in the use of logic and proofs and Boolean
Algebra and Boolean functions. Applied Probability and Statistics and Applied Algebra are prerequisites for this course.
D421 - Discrete Math: Functions and Relations - Discrete Math: Functions and Relations is designed to help students develop competence in the use
of abstract discrete structures fundamental to systems networking. In particular, this course will introduce students to set theory, finite sequences,
series, and relations. Discrete Math: Logic, Applied Probability and Statistics, and Applied Algebra are prerequisites for this course.
D422 - Discrete Math: Algorithms and Cryptography - Discrete Math: Algorithms and Cryptography addresses discrete computational methods,
including searching and sorting algorithms, big-O estimates, and number theory and cryptography. Discrete Math Functions and Relations is a
prerequisite for this course.
D424 - Software Engineering Capstone - The capstone challenges students to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one
project.
D425 - Introduction to Chemistry - In Introduction to Chemistry, learners will discover the impact of chemistry on everyday life. They’ll learn about the
structure of the atom, study periodic trends, analyze the structure of molecules and their properties, and describe the importance of common functional
groups within the periodic table. They’ll identify balanced chemical equations, describe types of chemical reactions and predict their products, and
examine intermolecular forces and describe their impact on the properties of substances. Finally, they’ll study the properties of acids, bases, and buffer
systems, and properties unique to liquids and gases.
D426 - Data Management - Foundations - Data Management Foundations offers an introduction in creating conceptual, logical and physical data
models. Students gain skills in creating databases and tables in SQL-enabled database management systems, as well as skills in normalizing
databases. No prerequisites are required for this course.
D427 - Data Management - Applications - Data Management - Applications covers conceptual data modeling and introduces MySQL. Students will
learn how to create simple to complex SELECT queries, including subqueries and joins, and how to use SQL to update and delete data. Topics
covered in this course include exposure to MySQL; creating and modifying databases, tables, views, foreign keys and primary keys (FKs and PKs),
and indexes; populating tables; and developing simple Select-From-Where (SFW) queries to complex 3+ table join queries. The following course is a
prerequisite: Data Management - Foundations.
D428 - Design Thinking for Business - Design Thinking for Business examines the design thinking methodology for solving complex problems. This
course introduces students to design thinking as a human-centered approach to problem-solving and innovation that draws upon empathy and
creativity to develop solutions to complex problems. Students will explore the principles and stages of design thinking and analyze the use of design
thinking in developing solutions through real-world scenarios.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 276
D429 - Introduction to AI for Computer Scientists - Introduction to AI for Computer Scientists provides an overview of critical terminology and key
concepts for artificial intelligence (AI). The course explores the history and evolution of AI, elements of code, and the process for understanding
algorithmic approaches to AI. The course presents topics of bias, ethical issues, and security concerns. Contextualized examples offer students an
opportunity to see these concepts in professional scenarios; identifying issues within code, understanding the steps within an AI design, and
understanding the different features, limitations, and benefits for a multitude of AI applications.
D430 - Fundamentals of Information Security - This course lays the foundation for understanding terminology, principles, processes, and best practices
of information security at local and global levels. It further provides an overview of basic security vulnerabilities and countermeasures for protecting
information assets through planning and administrative controls within an organization. This course has no prerequisites.
D431 - Digital Forensics in Cybersecurity - Digital Forensics in Cyber Security examines the relationships between incident categories, evidence
handling, and incident management. This course teaches students to identify consequences associated with cyber threats and security laws using a
variety of tools to recognize and recover from unauthorized, malicious activities and how to seek evidence that reveals who, what, when, where, and
how threats compromise information.
D432 - HR Compliance and Employee Relations - HR Compliance and Employee Relations provides students with an in-depth understanding of the
relevant laws, regulations, and ethical issues related to human resource (HR) compliance and risk management. It also explores how to resolve and
improve employee relations issues to maintain a positive organizational culture in a diverse workplace. Topics include business laws and ethical
considerations, employment and labor laws and regulations, and employee relations strategies to build and maintain a positive, healthy, and respectful
work environment.
D433 - Talent Acquisition and Development - Talent Acquisition and Development provides an in-depth look at the strategies used to attract, retain,
and develop qualified talent in an organization. Students discover how to hire the right talent to meet the needs of the organization, how to orient and
onboard new employees, and how to ensure employee excellence through learning and development and performance management strategies.
D434 - Future Focused Total Rewards - Future Focused Total Rewards examines discretionary and legally required approaches to compensation and
benefits practices that compose an organization’s total rewards system. Students explore how to develop and communicate the components of a
competitive total rewards strategy to prospective and existing employees while adhering to employment laws and aligning to an organization’s strategic
goals and culture.
D435 - HR Technology and People Analytics - HR Technology and People Analytics introduces students to the types of human resource information
systems (HRISs), applications, and platforms used to capture and manage employee data and the analytics used to make strategic decisions based
on that data. Students will discover how to plan for the implementation of new human resource (HR) technology, present the plan to stakeholders to
gain buy-in and support for the change, and train employees in the new systems. Students will also gain an understanding of how to pull and use data
and people analytics for effective storytelling, decision-making, and leadership influence.
D436 - Inclusive Workplace Culture Capstone - Inclusive Workplace Culture Capstone provides students with the opportunity to work through the
SHRM Inclusive Workplace Culture specialty credential course content, studying and analyzing how human resource (HR) professionals can integrate
an inclusive approach to all HR functions such as talent acquisition, training and development, total rewards, and more. Students will complete a
capstone project that synthesizes an inclusive approach to strategic HR practices for an organization to create an environment of true belonging for all
employees, while simultaneously being prepared to complete the SHRM Inclusive Workplace Culture exam independently to earn a specialty
credential and badge from SHRM.
D439 - Foundations of Nursing - Foundations of Nursing introduces students to the nursing process, scope of practice, clinical judgment model and
fundamental concepts of holistic nursing practice that will serve the needs of diverse adult patients across the lifespan. The course will focus on
medical terminology, legal/ethical issues, basic care and comfort, oxygenation, safety & infection control, health and wellness, fluid & electrolytes,
death and dying, therapeutic communication, patient education & advocacy.
Co-requisites: C957, D202, D236, D441, D442, and D443.
Prerequisite Courses: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms.
D440 - Health and Wellness Through Nutritional Science - The health and wellness through nutritional science course prepares nursing students to
learn the basic principles of nutrition, nutrition throughout the life cycle, nutrition related to weight management and physical health, and nutrition
related to patient conditions. Students will learn how nutrition influences a patient's overall health status across the life span.
D441 - Medical Dosage Calculations and Pharmacology - Medical Dosage Calculations and Pharmacology introduces an in-depth nursing approach to
medication administration concepts, legal & ethical principles, pharmacological principles, variety of drug classifications, complementary & alternative
therapies needed to care for diverse patients across the lifespan.
D442 - Basic Nursing Skills - Basic Nursing Skills will introduce foundational principles of nursing process and the clinical judgement model, health
assessment techniques, and communication skills needed to care for diverse adult patients across the lifespan. Skills will focus on the concepts of vital
signs, medication administration, infection control, nutrition, elimination, mobility, oxygenation, and skin integrity. Students are required to be
successful on lab assessments to progress to Adult Health1 clinical. Co-requisites: D443 and D444
D443 - Health Assessment - The Health Assessment course focuses on concepts and skills necessary to collect a comprehensive health history and
perform a head-to-toe and focused assessments on diverse patients across the lifespan. The emphasis will be to differentiate between normal and
abnormal findings of various body systems such as the following: integumentary, head & neck, eyes & ears, respiratory, cardiovascular,
gastrointestinal, renal, musculoskeletal, nervous, and reproductive systems. Corequisites are D442 and D444.
D444 - Adult Health I - Adult Health I prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high quality medical surgical nursing care for diverse adult
populations across the lifespan in various health care settings. This includes health promotion and management of common conditions. This course
explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcome. This course will focus on medical surgical nursing care related to head &
neck, skin, inflammation, infection, fluid & electrolytes, respiratory, gastrointestinal, hepatic, genitourinary, and reproductive systems. The nursing
process and the clinical judgement model will be used as the foundation to navigate the management of care for patients. A variety of populations and
settings are used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D443.
D445 - Intermediate Nursing Skills - Intermediate Nursing Skills will build on basic nursing skill concepts to develop intermediate medical surgical
nursing practice, including peripheral intravenous access, blood administration, airway management, perioperative and postoperative care, and wound
care management. The course focuses on nursing care of both adult and pediatric populations, including a focus on the care of women and the
maternal care setting. Students will use simulation to apply the clinical judgment model to various diverse populations in various care settings.
Students are required to be successful on course performance assessments to progress to Adult Health II clinical. Co-requisites: D446 & D447
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 277
D446 - Adult Health II - Adult Health II prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high quality medical surgical nursing care for diverse adult
populations across the lifespan in various health care settings. This includes health promotion and management of both acute and chronic conditions.
This course explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcome. This course will focus on medical surgical nursing care related
to perioperative nursing, neurological, hematological, renal, cardiovascular, endocrine, and musculoskeletal systems. The nursing process and clinical
judgement model will be used for clinical decision-making and fostering health promotion and maintenance. A variety of populations and settings are
used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D447.
Prerequisite Courses: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms and D445.
D447 - Women's and Children's Nursing - Women's and Children's Nursing prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high-quality nursing care,
pharmacological care, and emotional support for diverse women and pediatric populations. This course focuses on antepartum, intrapartum,
postpartum, neonatal clinical nursing, and women's health. This course builds on growth and development of children, nursing care for children and
adolescents with acute and chronic alterations of the respiratory, cardiovascular, hematologic, endocrine, reproductive, gastrointestinal, renal,
neurologic, musculoskeletal, and integumentary systems. This course explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcomes in
women and pediatric populations. A variety of populations and settings are used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisites: D445 and D446.
Prerequisites: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms.
D449 - Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing - Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high-quality care
using modern concepts of psychiatric and mental health nursing. The student will utilize therapeutic communication to a diverse population of patients
including those with maladaptive behaviors through the utilization of the nursing process by applying the principles of psychiatric and mental
healthcare and the clinical judgement model. This course explores the nurse-client relationship, pharmacological management, cognitive conditions,
bipolar and thought conditions, personality disorders, substance abuse, eating disorders, and self-harm. A variety of populations and settings are used
in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisites: D450.
Prerequisite Courses: All prelicensure nursing curriculum courses from previous terms and D445.
D450 - Community Health and Population-Focused Nursing - Community health and population focused nursing concentrates on the theory and
concepts of community, public and global health nursing that impact diverse communities. Students learn the role of the community health nurse, learn
to assess the community’s healthcare needs, available resources, epidemiology, substance abuse, disaster management, and how social
determinants of health impact community and public health risk and outcomes. A variety of populations and settings are used in the experiential
learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D449.
D453 - Advanced Nursing Skills - Advanced Nursing Skills will build on intermediate skills and focus on advanced skills related to critical care nursing
practice, including closed chest drainage systems, electrocardiograms (EKGs), palliative care, ventilators, disaster management and transition to
practice. Clinical judgement and problem solving are emphasized in the assessment of critically ill patients and prioritizing patients’ needs and nursing
interventions. Students are required to be successful on course performance assessments to progress to Adult Health III clinical. Co-requisites: D454
& D455
D454 - Adult Health III - Adult Health III prepares students to provide safe, equitable, high quality complex medical surgical nursing care for diverse
adult populations across the lifespan in various health care settings. This includes health promotion and management of both acute and chronic
conditions. This course explores how social determinants of health impact health risk and outcome. This course will focus on caring for patients with
potentially life-threatening alterations of the respiratory, cardiovascular, endocrine, and neurologic, renal, hepatic systems, end of life care (palliative),
shock and transplants. Clinical judgment and problem solving are emphasized in the assessment of critically ill patients and prioritizing patient ‘s needs
and nursing interventions. A variety of populations and settings are used in the experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisites: D455
D455 - Professional Nursing Role Transition - The Professional Nursing Role Transition course builds on the previous knowledge gained in all other
nursing courses. The emphasis of this course is placed on the personal and professional strategies needed to make the transition from student to
graduate nurse by highlighting the role and skills of bedside nurse leaders. The course will review content related to leadership and management,
foundational nursing, advanced clinical, medical surgical, pediatric, women’s, and mental health concepts. The students will complete a professional
portfolio that showcases their accomplishments, knowledge, and skills throughout the program. A variety of populations and settings are used in the
experiential learning components of this course.
Co-requisite: D454
D458 - Introduction to Systems Thinking for Health Professionals - Introduction to Systems Thinking for Health Professionals provides learners with the
skills required to engage in a holistic systems-based approach to analyzing complex problems and solutions. This course introduces the foundational
concepts and principles of systems thinking and provides opportunities to use a systems thinking approach to analyze and evaluate real-world case
studies. The course will culminate with using systems thinking to develop a solution to an authentic complex problem. This course has no
prerequisites, but general education math (C955 or C957) is preferred. Because the course is self-paced, learners may move through the material as
quickly or as slowly as needed, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If learners have no
prior knowledge of this material, they can expect to spend 30 to 40 hours on the course content.
D459 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Applications - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Applications provides learners with the skills required
to engage in a holistic systems-based approach to analyzing complex problems and solutions. This course introduces the foundational concepts and
principles of systems thinking and provides opportunities to use a systems thinking approach to analyze and evaluate real-world case studies. The
course will culminate with using systems thinking to develop a solution to an authentic complex problem. This course has no prerequisites, but general
education math (C955 or C957) is preferred. Because the course is self-paced, learners may move through the material as quickly or as slowly as
needed, with the goal of demonstrating proficiency in the five competencies covered in the final assessment. If learners have no prior knowledge of this
material, they can expect to spend 30 to 40 hours on the course content.
D464 - Managing Operations - Managing Operations examines management systems and processes to improve operating efficiency. In this course,
students will be introduced to operations management concepts and will learn how analysis of these systems and processes can improve operating
efficiency across the organization. Students will explore ethical and sustainable operations management strategies and will analyze operating
processes for continuous improvement.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 278
D465 - Data Applications - Data Applications examines the principles and techniques used to effectively analyze data to answer questions and
provides foundational knowledge of R and RStudio environments. This course teaches students how to aggregate; how to format and adjust data using
spreadsheets and SQL; how to use formulas and functions to perform calculations in SQL; how to organize, transform, clean, and analyze data in R;
and how to create visualizations in R Markdown. Upon completion of this course, students will earn the WGU Business Analysis Professional
certificate and may also choose to earn the Google Data Analytics Professional certificate.
D466 - Analyzing and Visualizing Data - Analyzing and Visualizing Data examines the principles and techniques used to effectively analyze data to
answer questions and share data through the art of visualization. This course explores how to use formulas and functions to perform calculations, how
to design and create visualizations and dashboards in Tableau, and how to build an effective data presentation that considers limitations associated
with the data and best practices for audience considerations. This course provides students with an opportunity to demonstrate an understanding of
what is involved in the conversion and formatting of data and apply the use of functions and syntax to create SQL queries for combining data from
multiple database tables. The course D467: Exploring Data, which also includes Google certificate materials, is a prerequisite.
D467 - Exploring Data - Exploring Data builds proficiency with data, including the organization, preparation, transformation, cleaning, and verification of
data. This course examines how to apply critical thinking, spreadsheet, and structured query language techniques to data management and decision-
making. Students may simultaneously work toward the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate and the WGU Business Analysis Certificate. The
course D468: Discovering Data, which also includes Google certificate materials, is a prerequisite.
D468 - Discovering Data - Discovering Data introduces analytical concepts, processes, and tools used in the field of business analytics. This course
explores the importance of asking effective questions to collect the right data. Students will examine using analytical thinking to organize, analyze, and
share data to drive decision-making. This course provides students the opportunity to work toward the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate
and the WGU Business Analysis Certificate. Fundamentals of Spreadsheets and Data Presentations is a prerequisite for this course.
D469 - Quality, Continuous Improvement, and Lean Six Sigma - Quality, Continuous Improvement, and Lean Six Sigma examines how organizations
can measure and improve the quality of products, goods, and services. Students consider different dimensions and characteristics of quality and are
introduced to a variety of strategies and tools that are used to manage quality and measure performance. This course explores how to apply
continuous improvement processes by analyzing the Lean Six Sigma DMAIC (define, measure, analyze, improve, and control) method. C955: Applied
Probability and Statistics is a prerequisite for this course.
D470 - Transportation, Logistics, and Distribution - Transportation, Logistics, and Distribution examines logistics and the planning and management of
transportation and distribution. This course introduces requirements and risks, facilities and inventory, strategy and supply chain synchronicity,
efficiencies and costs, and laws and regulations related to transportation, distribution, and logistics. Students will explore warehousing and warehouse
management, inventory and logistics management, distribution, and supply chain management from the lens of transportation, logistics, and
distribution. This course is aligned with the Certified in Logistics, Transportation, and Distribution (CLTD) certification from the Association for Supply
Chain Management.
D471 - Global Supply Chain Management - Global Supply Chain Management introduces a broad range of supply chain management concepts.
Students consider supply chains and supply chain management strategies, including planning and design, risk management, and global and
sustainable supply chain networks and management. Students learn about managing important relationships and their interdependencies. Students
also investigate how supply chain costs affect consumers, quality and continuous improvement, and the role of the sales and operations planning
(S&OP) process. Portions of this course are aligned with aspects of ASCM APICS certification programs, namely the CSCP and the CPIM.
D472 - 21st Century Operations and Supply Chain - 21st Century Operations and Supply Chain explores modern issues in supply chain management.
Building on the supply chain landscape introduced in prior courses, this course addresses more complex supply chain and operations issues. The
course examines how disruptions transform operations and the supply chain and how to use qualitative and quantitative data to evaluate solutions.
D473 - Solutions Design and Visualization Capstone - Solution Design and Visualization Capstone guides learners to synthesize and apply the skills
learned throughout their business analytics, operations, and supply chain education. This course gives learners the opportunity to solve challenges in
procurement, sales and operations planning (S&OP) processes, distribution, logistics and transportation faced by a fictional company. In the course
capstone project, learners play the role of an operations and supply chain manager or consultant, redesigning the existing supply chain to implement
lean processes and using Six Sigma methodology to improve efficiency and allow the company to bring new products or services to market faster.
Learners in this course address a real operations and supply chain problem and design solutions, which they communicate in a report and a
presentation. At the end of the course, learners will have an authentic experience they can add to their portfolio and show employers. Working through
this capstone helps learners to understand how their knowledge interacts with real situations and how roles fit within the industry. The D472: 21st
Century Operations and Supply Chain course is a prerequisite.
D479 - User Experience Design - User Experience Design explores multiple tools and techniques used in user experience design. Students are
presented with an in-depth view of activities involved in the design of user experience and have the opportunity to create several deliverables including
persona profiles, information architectures, and prototypes of different levels of fidelity. In addition, the course also covers usability testing and the
evaluation of quantitative and qualitative data derived from these and other experiments.
D480 - Software Design and Quality Assurance - Software Design and Quality Assurance applies a QA focus to every phase of the software
development life cycle. This course investigates best practices for quality analysis, quality planning, and testing strategies as they pertain to the
everyday practice of software development. Students will come to understand how their work fits into the bigger picture: how QA, testing, and code-
writing practices interact within specific process models; the potential impact of new code on existing code or on other applications; the importance of
usability and the influence users have on the ultimate success of an application. Students will explore test plans, test cases, unit tests, integration
tests, regression tests, usability tests, and test and review tools.
D481 - Security Foundations - Security Foundations lays the foundation for understanding terminology, principles, processes, and information security
best practices at local and global levels. This course further provides an overview of networking components, network security vulnerabilities, and
countermeasures for protecting information assets through planning and administrative controls within an organization.
D482 - Secure Network Design - Secure Network Design provides the foundational knowledge and skills to design secure physical and logical network
architectures for wired and wireless networks. Course topics include the characteristics of a secure network, techniques to securely configure network
devices, network segmentation strategies, root cause analysis, and mitigation approaches based on industry best practices. The course also offers
hands-on experience in network vulnerability analysis and network configuration.
D483 - Security Operations - Security Operations provides learners with the fundamental skills to handle and respond to computer security incidents in
an information system. The course addresses various underlying principles and techniques for detecting and responding to current and emerging
computer security threats. The course also helps learners explore strategies to leverage intelligence and threat detection techniques, analyze and
interpret data, identify and address vulnerabilities, and suggest preventative measures. Methods are introduced to effectively respond to and recover
from cybersecurity incidents, evaluate risk assessment methodologies, and apply incident handling laws and policies.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 279
D484 - Penetration Testing - Penetration Testing introduces learners to the skills necessary to perform penetration testing and vulnerability
management within an organization. The course covers widely used penetration testing techniques and tools that focus on planning and scoping,
information gathering, vulnerability identification, and attacks and exploits. In addition, it offers hands-on experience and a focus on penetration testing
engagement plans.
D485 - Cloud Security - Cloud Security prepares learners to design solutions for cloud-based platforms and operations that maintain data availability
while protecting the confidentiality and integrity of information. Course topics include cloud service models, deployment methods, identity and access
management (IAM) strategies, auditing and monitoring strategies, assessing and mitigating common cloud security threats, and managing compliance
and regulation requirements. The course also offers hands-on experience deploying and assessing IAM controls in a cloud environment.
D486 - Governance, Risk, and Compliance - Governance, Risk, and Compliance provides learners with advanced skills and knowledge to authorize
and maintain information systems utilizing various risk management frameworks. The course focuses on the strategic and long-term alignment of an
organization's information security program to regulatory requirements and organizational policies. Course topics include compliance and regulatory
requirements, data classification and prioritization, security and privacy controls, compliance audits and remediation, and risk management plans.
D487 - Secure Software Design - Secure Software Design focuses on the variety of elements needed to address and implement secure software
acquisition and development throughout the software development life cycle (SDLC). The course addresses people, technology, tools, and processes
to design and develop consistently secure applications from start to finish. Additionally, it underscores the importance and value of the Defense in
Depth principle across the entire SDLC. The course also introduces techniques to adapt common security activities to modern software development
practices such as Agile and DevSecOps.
D488 - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering - Cybersecurity Architecture and Engineering provides learners with advanced skills and
knowledge to design secure enterprise architecture solutions. The course focuses on assessing cybersecurity readiness and implementing enterprise-
wide solutions to protect data and comply with an organization's policies and frameworks. Course topics include integrating software applications,
applying enterprise data security controls, evaluating cloud and virtualization solutions, analyzing threats and vulnerabilities, and responding to
incidents.
D489 - Cybersecurity Management - Cybersecurity Management prepares learners to develop organizational information security programs and
policies that follow recognized standards, comply with all governing laws and regulations, and meet the needs of the company culture and
management organization. The course covers how to perform risk management institutionally, how to manage compliance to information security
requirements, and how to delegate compliance, risk, and security functions to specific roles within the organization. It also helps learners apply
strategic decision-making as companies adapt to new technologies, processes, and people practices related to processing, managing, and protecting
information resources.
D490 - Cybersecurity Graduate Capstone - The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance (MSCSIA) Capstone project allows
learners to demonstrate their capability to establish a durable cybersecurity and information assurance program. The capstone project challenges
learners to integrate skills and knowledge from all program domains into one project that addresses a significant real-world cybersecurity problem.
D491 - Introduction to Analytics - Analytics is the creative use of data and statistical modeling to tell a compelling story that not only drives strategic
action, but also results in business value. Introduction to Analytics examines data analytics as a discipline and the various roles and functions within
the field. You will expand your knowledge about what analytics is and develop a basic understanding of statistics, analysis, problem solving, and
programming concepts.
D492 - Data Analytics - Applications - Data Analytics Applications covers advanced concepts across the various phases of the data product lifecycle.
You will learn to choose and apply appropriate techniques for data management and data manipulation, statistical analysis, visualization, and data
governance concepts to satisfy business needs.
D493 - Scripting and Programming - Applications - Scripting and Programming - Applications for undergraduates explores the various aspects of the
Python programming language by examining its syntax, the development environment, and tools and techniques to solve some real-world problems.
Introduction to Programming in Python is a prerequisite for this course.
D494 - Data and Information Governance - Data and Information Governance provides learners with the knowledge that establishing rules of
engagement, policies, procedures, and data stewardship is essential to exercising organizational control over—and extracting maximum value
from—its data assets. Good data governance helps an organization lower costs, create efficiencies, and achieve its strategic goals and objectives.
Data governance provides a framework for properly managing information across the entire data lifecycle and establishes strategies in support of
disaster recovery and continuity of operations. This course will prepare IT professionals to assist their organization in the definition and implementation
of best practices related to the planning and implementation of managed systems that meet business, technical, security, auditing, disaster recovery,
and business continuity requirements.
D495 - Big Data Foundations - Big Data Foundations provides an in-depth introduction to big data concepts, terminology, and applications. You will
learn the risks and challenges of working with extremely large data sets. The course introduces tools and techniques for working with big data. The
course covers selection criteria for relational and non-relational data architectures and cloud-native data storage concepts. It also provides a historical
perspective on the evolution of big data storage approaches. Data warehousing, data lakes, and data lakehouses are introduced, and design principles
for each are explained. Learners design aspects of big data architecture and big data processing to address given business requirements.
D496 - Introduction to Data Science - Introduction to Data Science introduces the data analysis process and common statistical techniques necessary
for the analysis of data. Students will ask questions that can be solved with a given data set, set up experiments, use statistics and data wrangling to
test hypotheses, find ways to speed up their data analysis code, make their data set easier to access, and communicate their findings.
D497 - Data Wrangling - Data Wrangling elaborates on concepts covered in Introduction to Data Science, helping to develop skills crucial to the field of
data science and analysis. It explores how to wrangle data from diverse sources and shape it to enable data-driven applications—a common activity in
many data scientists' routine. Topics covered include gathering and extracting data from widely-used data formats, assessing the quality of data, and
exploring best practices for data cleaning.
D498 - Data Analysis with R - Data Analysis with R focuses on exploratory data analysis (EDA) utilizing R. EDA is an approach for summarizing and
visualizing the important characteristics of a data set. In this course you will develop skills in R programming to acquire and load data sets, create
appropriate statistical summaries of data, and create data visualizations to help uncover and communicate insights about data using R.
D499 - Machine Learning - Machine Learning presents the end-to-end process of investigating data through a machine learning lens. Topics covered
include: supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms, features that best represent data, commonly-used machine learning algorithms, and
methods for evaluating the performance of machine learning algorithms.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 280
D500 - Data Visualization - Data Visualization covers the application of design principles, human perception, color theory, and effective storytelling in
the context of data visualization. It addresses presenting data to others and advancing technology with visualization tools enabling data scientists to
share their findings and support organizational decision-making processes. Additionally, this course focuses on how to visually encode and present
data to an audience.
D501 - Machine Learning DevOps - Machine Learning DevOps focuses on the software engineering fundamentals needed to successfully streamline
the deployment of data and machine learning models in a production-level environment. Students will build the DevOps skills required to automate the
various aspects and stages of machine learning model building and monitoring over time.
D502 - Data Analytics Capstone - The Data Analytics Undergraduate Capstone challenges students to demonstrate competencies supporting all BSDA
program outcomes. Students will identify an organizational need, plan and develop a data analytics product to serve that need, and document the
process in a project proposal and data project report.
D509 - Innovative Solutions in Healthcare Leadership - Innovative Solutions in Healthcare Leadership provides an opportunity to explore healthcare
innovations through comparison research, the application of disruptive leadership concepts, and advanced technology applications. Students will apply
strategic innovation concepts to improve critical patient dissatisfiers in a healthcare setting. This course has no prerequisites.
D510 - Collaborative Leadership - Collaborative Leadership provides an opportunity to apply collaborative leadership skills to better serve diverse
communities. Students will develop a process innovation with community leaders in a diverse population emphasizing a cultural competence. This
course has no prerequisites.
D511 - Healthcare Models and Systems - Healthcare Models and Systems provides an opportunity to analyze the evolution of healthcare models and
systems. Students will apply administration strategies to manage organizational changes and community affiliations. This course has no prerequisites.
D512 - Quality Improvement in Healthcare - Quality Improvement in Healthcare provides an opportunity to apply quality improvement principles and
strategies in a high-volume Level 1 trauma center. Students will apply disruptive leadership strategies to implement quality-improvement procedures in
a fast-paced healthcare environment. This course has no prerequisites.
D513 - Healthcare Financial Management - Healthcare Financial Management provides an opportunity to apply strategic change management
principles through the application of fiscal management and data analysis in a healthcare environment. The student will examine strategies to increase
value, sustainability, and productivity in a patient-centric environment. This course has no prerequisites.
D514 - Analytical Methods of Healthcare Leaders - Analytical Methods of Healthcare Leaders provides an opportunity to explore the use of predictive
analysis and forecasting techniques to develop evidence-based decision making. Students will apply quality research and analytical analysis to inform
decisions in a health management environment. This course has no prerequisites.
D515 - Enterprise Risk Management - Enterprise Risk Management provides an opportunity to examine risk exposure and response, and risk
mitigation within an integrated care delivery model. Students will apply practices to identify risks and develop sustainable corrective action plans. This
course has no prerequisites.
D516 - Healthcare Information Technology - Healthcare Information Technology provides an opportunity to examine the use of technology in data
analysis and applications to improve outcomes in a patient-centered care environment. Students will apply strategic analysis to improve technology
function and interoperability within a community healthcare cooperative. This course has no prerequisites.
D517 - Population Healthcare Coordination - Population Healthcare Coordination provides an opportunity to examine population healthcare strategies
and community collaboration to impact at-risk demographic groups. Students will apply strategic change management and data analysis to develop
health initiatives for a large-scale population. This course has no prerequisites.
D518 - Challenges in Community Healthcare - Challenges in Community Healthcare provides an opportunity to explore organizational leadership and
administration as well as problem-solving methods to collaborate with community leaders in a high-stakes healthcare environment. Students will apply
collaborative leadership skills and evidence-based practices as they develop community relationships to resolve critical issues in community health
management. This course has no prerequisites.
D519 - Integrated Healthcare Leadership and Administration - Integrated Healthcare Leadership and Administration provides an opportunity to
examine integrated healthcare delivery systems and person-centered care models for innovative solutions to critical challenges. The student will apply
principles of collaborative leadership, disruptive change, and catalyst evaluation to develop a holistic integrated healthcare system. This course has no
prerequisites.
D520 - Healthcare Leadership and Administration Capstone - The capstone is a student-designed project intended to illustrate your ability to effect
change in the industry and demonstrate competence in all five program outcomes: transformational leader, value innovator, tactical manager, analyst,
and integrated systems expert. Students are required to collaborate with leaders in the healthcare industry to identify opportunities for improvement in
healthcare, propose a solution, and perform a business analysis to evaluate its feasibility. In addition, the capstone encourages work in the healthcare
industry that will be showcased in the student’s collection of work and help solidify professional relationships in the industry. This course has no
prerequisites.
D522 - Python for IT Automation - Python for IT Automation covers the fundamentals of the Python language and its features to control program flow,
inform decisions, and automate IT tasks and processes. The course emphasizes a systematic approach to solving problems and the application of
programming logic to administer secure, scalable, and resilient IT networks and systems.
D545 - Healthcare Administration Evolution, Systems, and Leadership - Healthcare Administration Evolution, Systems, and Leadership provides an in-
depth exploration of the U.S. healthcare system. The course covers the system’s evolution, key stakeholders, business principles, leadership roles,
health equity issues, and the transformative influence of technology in healthcare administration. The learner will obtain tools necessary to drive
positive change within the healthcare landscape through ample opportunity for strategic thinking and problem solving.
D546 - Healthcare Policy and Governance - Healthcare Policy and Governance provides a comprehensive exploration of healthcare administration,
focusing on healthcare policies, regulations, and governance and their impact on operations, administration, and community health services. Students
develop skills to evaluate implications, assess regulatory frameworks, and comprehend legal and ethical considerations in healthcare administration
and community health services. The course equips students with the knowledge to navigate the healthcare system, make informed decisions, and
contribute to high-quality care and patient outcomes.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 281
D547 - Evidence-Based Healthcare Administration - Evidence-Based Healthcare Administration is an immersive course that equips students with the
knowledge and skills needed to apply evidence-based practices in the field of healthcare administration. Students will gain a thorough understanding of
how to use data analytics, research methodologies, and evidence-based decision-making principles. The course covers essential areas, such as
machine learning, artificial intelligence, data collection instruments, and statistical and analytical tools. Ethical considerations, privacy regulations, and
effective communication skills are also highlighted, preparing students to make informed decisions, advocate for evidence-based strategies, and
contribute to improved patient care, better outcomes, and sustainable healthcare practices.
D548 - Emergency Management and Planning in Healthcare - Emergency Management and Planning in Healthcare equips students with the
necessary knowledge and skills to effectively manage emergencies in healthcare organizations. Students will learn to assess, plan, and respond to
emergencies, ensuring the safety of patients and staff. This course covers evaluating the impact of emergencies, identifying vulnerabilities, and
assessing risks, with a focus on crisis communication and ethical considerations specific to healthcare. Students will gain insights into leadership’s role
in decision-making, coordination, and resource allocation during critical situations, while also exploring public health, community resilience,
collaboration, and the integration of technology. Additionally, the course addresses the influence of cultural factors and principles of mental health
support in enhancing emergency management capabilities.
D549 - Exploring Emerging Trends in Healthcare Administration - Exploring Emerging Trends in Healthcare Administration examines the impact of
trends on healthcare administration, patient care, and industry transformation. With a focus on analyzing and synthesizing complex information related
to healthcare, learners evaluate how advancements and innovations are transforming the healthcare industry and how to anticipate and adapt to
trends as they appear. Introducing the practical implications of integrating Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) principles within the healthcare system,
learners will explore: advocating for equitable healthcare practices, developing strategies to reduce health disparities, and promoting culturally
sensitive and inclusive care for diverse populations. By understanding how to track and evaluate trends, learners will be prepared to navigate and
contribute to the evolving landscape of healthcare administration.
D550 - Ethics for Accountants - Ethics for Accountants examines standards of professional conduct and business practices required for accounting
professionals. This course will discuss the necessity of applying ethical principles in the application of accounting principles, tax preparation, and attest
services to clients. Moreover, the learner will explore how to apply ethical reasoning, various cognitive processes, professional skepticism and ethical
decision-making related to situations involving corporate governance and moral dilemmas. Finally, this course will include discussions of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ (AICPA) Statements on Standards for Tax Services and the Institute of Management Accountants’ (IMA)
Statement of Ethical Professional Practices.
D551 - Fraud and Forensic Accounting - Fraud and Forensic Accounting provides learners with an in-depth understanding of how fraud and forensic
investigations are part of the accounting profession. This course covers the various types of fraud and their impact on organizations, as well as the
detection, investigation, and prevention of fraud. This course also introduces the role of forensic accountants in the legal system and the use of
forensic accounting techniques in financial investigations. The course will include scenarios and hands-on exercises to provide learners with practical
experience in detecting and investigating fraud.
D552 - Data Analytics for Accountants I - Data Analytics for Accountants I introduces basic concepts and various tools and techniques used in the field
of data analytics for accounting. Learners will summarize data analysis definitions and models for the accounting field, explore data mining techniques
and the extract-transform-load (ETL) process and create a presentation from accounting data results. This course presents a survey of concepts that
provides learners with a basic understanding of how data analytics is used in accounting.
D553 - Data Analytics for Accountants II - Data Analytics for Accountants II equips students with the skills needed to analyze and present data to make
reliable forecasts and propose strategies. Accountants are no longer limited to being the chroniclers of an organization’s profits and expenses; they
now leverage the power of data to predict the future and advise leaders on appropriate actions. This course will emphasize auditing, managerial
accounting, tax accounting and financial reporting as the learner completes a professional scenario that requires predictive analysis and presenting a
course of action. As part of the Master of Accounting program, this course will cover content that appears in the data analysis portions of the Certified
Public Accountant (CPA) and Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exams. Data Analytics for Accountants I is a prerequisite for this course.
D554 - Advanced Financial Accounting I - D554: Advanced Financial Accounting I prepares students to engage in an expanding business world by
teaching complex accounting and specialized skills required to accommodate the advanced accounting needs of many industries. Being able to apply
financial standards using professional judgment to a variety of business situations is crucial for success in the business world. This course builds
student’s accounting knowledge by focusing on advanced financial accounting topics such as consolidations, partnership accounting, allocations,
adjustments, and eliminations.
D555 - Advanced Financial Accounting II - Advanced Financial Accounting II builds upon the topics covered in D554: Advanced Financial Accounting I.
It provides students with a deeper understanding of advanced financial accounting topics such as foreign currency transactions, hedging, annual and
interim reporting, and partnership accounting. This course will equip students with the necessary skills to prepare essential accounting records for
partnerships, translate foreign currency financial statements, and explain reporting requirements for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC).
D556 - Corporate Financial Analysis - Corporate Financial Analysis teaches the analysis of topics in financial management, including financial
statement analysis and strategic corporate decision-making related to valuation, risk, capital structure, investment decisions, and performance. This
course helps learners develop an understanding of the process financial managers and financial analysts face when making strategic decisions
designed to improve an organization’s efficiency. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D557 - Corporate Taxation - Corporate Taxation describes federal income taxation of corporations and their shareholders with emphasis on the
formation of the corporation, capital structure, operational alternatives, distributions, partial and complete liquidations, personal holding companies,
and the accumulated earnings tax. This course offers real-life scenario case studies and exercises to better engage learners by applying course
concepts in practice. This course involves difficult tax rules and concepts; thus, it is imperative for the learner to study the textbook and complete the
assigned problems in the text.
D558 - Pass-Through Taxation - Pass-Through Entities Taxation prepares learners to address the needs of the various pass-through entity types
regarding tax preparation. Many businesses choose to utilize pass-through entities rather than C corporations. Partnerships, limited liability company
(LLCs), and S corporations appear in almost all business sectors and each type contains unique features which can provide advantages to specific
business situations. Accountants encounter all these entity types throughout their career and understanding the advantages, disadvantages, specific
rules, and procedures is a vital skillset for the modern tax professional.
D559 - Advanced Managerial Accounting - Advanced Managerial Accounting focuses on problem-solving for managerial accounting issues. This
course prepares learners for the role of accountants in the planning and control of organizations. Learners also develops knowledge about how to use
efficient and various analysis techniques for decision-making based on cost information and economic insight, such as how managerial accounting
information supports the operational and strategic needs of an organization and how managers use accounting information for decision-making,
planning, and controlling activities within an organization.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 282
D560 - Internal Auditing I - Internal Auditing I provides learners with the basic knowledge and skills necessary to succeed as an entry-level internal
audit professional. The course introduces the fundamentals of internal auditing. It covers the importance of value proposition as well as the Institute of
Internal Auditor’s (IIA) International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF), which provides authoritative guidance for the internal auditing
profession, including the code of ethics and standards. The course will teach students risk management approaches for an organization, and the
internal controls related to the internal auditing function. The course concludes with exploring the key elements of governance related to fraud risk
management and the controls necessary to detect and prevent fraud. Topics include the foundations of internal auditing, risk management,
governance and controls, and fraud. This course aligns with Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) standards. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D561 - Information Systems for Accounting and Control - Information Systems I is intended to provide learners with an overview of information systems
and information system technology used in the world of accounting. The topics will include networks, hardware, data needs, cybersecurity, and
government compliance with privacy and personal information. The course covers a range of topics that accountants may experience and be
responsible for in their professional life. There are four competencies, and each competency will introduce learners to topics designed to prepare them
for the high-stakes assessment.
D562 - Internal Auditing II - Internal Auditing II is a continuation of D560: Internal Auditing I and covers the competencies expected of an internal audit
professional in the business world. This course is well aligned with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ (IIA) International Professional Practices
Framework (IPPF). The course focuses on the five domains of the IPPF: the internal audit activity, planning the engagement, performing the
engagement, communicating the engagement, and monitoring progress. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D564 - Theories of Personality - Theories of Personality describes the concepts and assumptions of significant theories of personality. The course
assesses the strengths and weaknesses of each major personality theory, describes and defines the research methodology frequently used by
psychologists in the study of personality, and identifies the contributions of theory and empirical research to our contemporary understanding of
personality. Cultural impacts on personality are also discussed. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D565 - Cultural Awareness and Ethics - Cultural Awareness and Ethics provides students with the understanding of what it means to have personal,
explicit and implicit cultural biases and how these can affect interpersonal interactions. The course will explore strategies for responding to personal
biases and for promoting cultural awareness and ethical actions. Through critical readings, videos, and interactive activities, the student will gain
knowledge in these essential subjects. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D566 - Psychology of Learning - Psychology of Learning focuses on applying research on learning, emotion, and motivation to positively impact
influence human behavior. The course presents a study of key research and theories in the areas related to learning, with a focus on applications to
promote acquisition, retention, and transfer of knowledge. Learners will explore evidence-based strategies to promote learning and analyze how
individual and group characteristics can impact affect learning. This course will improve learners’ understanding of the emotional, social, and
environmental factors which that shape human learning and humans' capacity for development. "Introduction to Psychology" is the prerequisite for this
course.
D567 - Social Psychology - Social Psychology presents major theories in the field related to how the thoughts, emotions, and behaviors of an individual
both influence and are influenced by groups, communities, and society. Topics include the social factors that influence the choices people make, the
role cultural expectations play in directing behavior, and how to analyze the roots of your own assumptions. Students will perform self-reflections and
analyze case studies of social behaviors. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D568 - Health Equity and Social Determinants of Health - Health Equity and Social Determinants of Health examines the social determinants of health
(SDOH) as underlying factors that contribute to health inequity in populations and communities and their effect on health outcomes. This course will
help students understand the evidence-based strategies and approaches that promote health equity.
D581 Introduction to Research Methods is a prerequisite to this course.
D569 - Adult Psychology - Adult Psychology provides an in-depth study of adult development. The learner will explore and apply major theories of
adult development. The learner will analyze how individual characteristics and experiences, sociocultural factors, and structural contexts contribute to
adult development. Focus on current evidence-based science is included, along with emphasis on observation, recognition, and application to
individuals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D570 - Cognitive Psychology - Cognitive Psychology examines human mental processes, including how humans sense, interpret, think about, and
respond to information, and how they integrate new information with prior experience. This course examines mental operations, attention, pattern
recognition and other perceptual processes, memory, problem-solving and decision-making, categorization and concept formation, language
acquisition and use, and contextual-interpretation. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D571 - Psychopathology - Psychopathology examines historical and contemporary views and issues of abnormal behavior. Students are provided with
an overview of the ways mental health practitioners explain, diagnose, and treat behavioral disorders. Sociocultural impacts on abnormal behavior,
including the manifestation, categorization, and treatment of mental illness, are explored. Biases and popular depictions of mental health and mental
illness are analyzed. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D572 - Career and Lifelong Learning - Career and Lifelong Learning supports students in taking their first steps in a lifelong journey of development as
a professional. Students will explore career pathways, plan how best to achieve their desired professional future, and take tangible steps toward that
future by creating career growth materials that adhere to today’s best practices. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D573 - Understanding Substance Abuse & Addiction - Understanding Substance Abuse and Addiction provides an overview of substance abuse
causes, impact, prevention, and treatment. Students will understand the signs and symptoms of substance abuse and addiction and its impact on
individuals, groups, and the community. Students will analyze relevant factors that initiate and reinforce substance abuse and addiction and describe
evidence-based strategies for prevention, intervention, and treatment. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D574 - Neuropsychology - Neuropsychology covers how brain processes relate to human cognition and behavior. Students will understand typical
cognitive function in a person’s everyday life, major cognitive processes and neurophysiology involved in human sensation and perception, and
insights from social neurobiology on the interaction between brain processes and social behaviors. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D575 - Health Psychology - Health Psychology provides a basic overview of the biopsychosocial model of health and other holistic models of wellness.
The course draws from diverse cultural perspectives as well as the theory and practice of human health behavior change to explore the relationship
between psychosocial experiences and health. Topics include the impact of social and cultural factors on health, the relationship between stress and
physical health and disease, the psychological experience of illness, and how lifestyle patterns and behavior influence chronic disease. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 283
D576 - Industrial and Organizational Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology introduces students to the ways that businesses and other
organizations use psychological theories and models to recruit and train new talent, improve overall productivity, and enhance the motivation,
resilience, and team dynamics of employees. Students will consider both how to apply these strategies to themselves and how to use them to lead
others. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D577 - Team Dynamics - Team Dynamics explores interpersonal communication strategies, collaborative team interactions methods, and problem-
solving techniques to promote effective communication and improve quality outcomes in a professional environment. In this course, students will apply
psychologically-sound approaches for resolving conflicts, allowing them to navigate challenging workplace disagreements and personalities. Students
in this course will apply their skills to various situations. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D578 - Capstone in Psychology - The Capstone in Psychology is a culminating experience for the B.S. in Psychology program. In this project-based
course, students will apply their skills and psychological expertise obtained through the program to an issue of personal interest. Students will think
deeply and use their creative problem-solving skills and understanding of diverse perspectives. Upon completion of the capstone, students will have
proposed an evidence-based strategy to address a real-world psychosocial issue. The tasks for this course could be used as artifacts for a
professional portfolio. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D579 - Mental Health Awareness and Education - Mental Health Awareness and Education is designed to help students recognize mental disorders,
improve access to mental health services, support recovery, and lower the rate of death, disease, and disability among those with mental illnesses.
Topics include mental health education programs, mental health stigmas, cultural diversity in mental health, and barriers to mental health care and
strategies to overcome those barriers. Students will analyze these topics from the vantage point of a community mental health perspective. There are
no prerequisites for this course.
D580 - Healthcare Administration Capstone - This course is the culminating experience and assessment of healthcare business administration. This
course requires the student to integrate and synthesize managerial skills with healthcare knowledge, resulting in a high quality final project that
demonstrates professional managerial proficiency.
D581 - Introduction to Research Methods - Introduction to Research Methods familiarizes students with the foundations of research, guiding students
through selecting topics, forming research questions, engaging with relevant and reliable literature, and designing a research project. This course
provides an overview of how researchers form questions and hypotheses, which different types of methodologies can be used to address these
questions, and how existing literature and data are used to support or reject hypotheses. The methods presented in this course can be applied to many
fields and disciplines, and they provide a baseline for students to use in their chosen area of study and future work.
D582 - Introduction to Statistics for Research - Introduction to Statistics for Research covers descriptive and inferential statistics used to address
research questions. Levels of measurement, central tendency and variability, probability, distributions, correlation, hypothesis testing, t-tests, analysis
of variance, linear regression, and chi-square tests are examined, with a focus on their implications for research. Reading and interpreting graphically
presented statistical data is included. Before taking this course, students should complete C955 Applied Probability and Statistics or an equivalent
course.
D583 - Foundations in Public Health - Foundations in Public Health introduces learners to the nation’s public health systems including an overview of
the core functions of Public Health and the 10 essential public health services. Learners examine a variety of strategies to promote health, prevent
disease, and prolong life among populations and communities, including behavioral, population, and policy change, mass media approaches, and
community-based interventions. This course also provides learners with a foundational and historical orientation to the field of public health by
examining the philosophy, history, purpose, organization, terminology, and function.
D584 - Program Planning and Implementation - Program Planning and Implementation provides learners with the skills to plan and implement
evidenced-based public health programs to address the most important health issues affecting communities. Learners analyze community needs
assessments, develop program goals and SMART objectives, apply public health theories and models, and plan the implementation of a health
education strategy.
D585 - Program Evaluation - Program Evaluation familiarizes learners with approaches to evaluating an evidence-informed health program or
intervention implemented in a public health setting. Topics include logic models and evaluation frameworks; process and outcome metrics for
evaluating programs; qualitative and quantitative approaches to collecting data; and dissemination strategies for the results of program evaluation.
D586 - Public Health Policy - Public Health Policy introduces students to laws, regulations, actions, and decisions implemented within society to
promote wellness and ensure specific health goals are met. Public health policies range from formal legislation to community outreach efforts. In this
course, learners will examine the role of public health, the impact it has on our society, and strategies to promote health and health policy on a
community and global level.
D587 - Gender and Health - Gender and Health examines healthcare concerns, from both a historical perspective and the perspective current
healthcare trends and practices. This course covers the following topics: the history of gender and health; current healthcare trends the definitions of
sex and gender; and other, healthcare-related issues, including: equity versus equality, healthcare policies and bias, and health education. The goal of
this course is to increase student knowledge and awareness of how healthcare is influenced by sex, gender, and social determinants of health.
D588 - Human Sexuality - Human Sexuality provides learners with foundational knowledge surrounding public health issues, behaviors, risks,
prevention, and treatment for sexual health. Learners explore the relationship between one’s environment, biological makeup, and personal choices,
and analyze how each could impact sexual health, psychological factors, and physical well-being for an individual. Learners examine inequities related
to status, age, ethnicity, citizenship, disability, and sexual orientation, addressing challenges and gaps in public sexual healthcare services. Learners
then take critical foundational knowledge and produce educational materials for target populations. Learners identify community resources, data
sources, and sexual health education materials. This gives learners an opportunity to explore health literacy, methods of meeting the needs of specific
communities, and gaps in sexual public health resources. Learners leave this course with an understanding of key human sexuality issues, their
causes, and potential resolutions within public health settings.
D589 - Chronic and Infectious Diseases - Chronic & Infectious Diseases is designed to provide students with a deep understanding of the major
diseases that significantly impact public health. Chronic and infectious diseases remain a critical concern globally, and this course aims to empower
students with the knowledge and skills needed to address these challenges effectively. Students explore epidemiology, pathophysiology, prevention,
and management of various chronic and infectious diseases.
D590 - Public Health Administration - Public Health Administration is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the
principles, practices, and challenges of managing healthcare organizations in today's complex healthcare environment. It explores the critical aspects
of Public Health Administration, including leadership, healthcare policy, financial management, quality improvement, and ethical considerations.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 284
D591 - Grant Writing - Grant Writing introduces learners to essential tasks and approaches to acquiring funding for public health projects and programs
through grants. It addresses how to find and apply to both government and non-government grant opportunities. Learners practice researching for
grants, determining which grants align with the mission and purpose of a public health program, evaluating draft grant proposals, and identifying and
revising key components of a drafted proposal.
D592 - Environmental Health - This course provides learners with the foundational knowledge and relationship people have with their environment, the
risk management choices made, and the resulting associations that affect health and physical well-being for the individual, communities, and
susceptible populations.
D593 - Global Health - Global Health prepares learners to identify and analyze Global Health as a field. Learners consider how globalization has
affected the health of various groups of people throughout the world. Likewise, the learner also looks at how economic and environmental factors have
different effects on different groups globally. Finally, the course presents the learner with knowledge of various global initiatives and international
organizations that strive to promote health and well-being and reduce health disparities. The learner demonstrates their knowledge and skills by
drafting an advocacy statement promoting the successful efforts of a global health organization.
D594 - Public Health Leadership and Administration - Public Health Leadership & Administration Learners apply leadership principles for public health
leadership positions. This includes engaging, organizing, and leading diverse groups, as well as addressing ethical issues in the field of public health.
Learners also apply negotiation and mediation skills to address challenges they may face in the organization or community.
D595 - Public Health Capstone - Public Health Capstone provides learners with real-world applications to prepare them for the public health industry.
In this course, learners apply the knowledge gained through the program to real-world situations and educates the public in response to those
situations.
D596 - The Data Analytics Journey - The Data Analytics Journey uses the analytics life cycle to conceptualize the processes, tools, and techniques for
implementing data analysis, data engineering, and decision process engineering. Students gain fluency in gathering requirements, asking business
questions, establishing evaluation metrics, identifying communication models, and aligning the analytics project outcomes to business goals. This
course presents an overview of the various tracks offered in the program and the career options in these specializations. There is no prerequisite for
this course.
D597 - Data Management - Data Management builds proficiency in using both relational and non-relational databases. Topics include selection of a
data storage architecture, data types, data structures, normalization and denormalization, and querying databases. Structured Query Language (SQL)
topics such as Data Definition Language (DDL) and Data Manipulation Language (DML) are covered, including joins, aggregations, and transactions.
Non-relational approaches to organizing and querying data are contrasted with relational approaches to build competency in adapting data storage
architectures to business needs.
D598 - Analytics Programming - Analytics Programming builds algorithmic thinking using both the Python and R programming languages. This course
builds from the foundations of programming. Learners use libraries and packages to perform common analytics tasks, including acquiring, organizing,
and manipulating data sets. The course also presents methods for applying statistical functions and graphical user interfaces to perform basic analysis
and to present findings. There is no pre-requisite for this course.
D599 - Data Preparation and Exploration - Data Preparation and Exploration applies analytical programming skills to the early steps of the data
analytics life cycle. This course covers cleaning data to ensure the structure, accuracy, and quality of the data; interpretation of descriptive and
inferential statistics as well as visualizations of data; and wrangling data to prepare it for further analysis. The course introduces hypothesis testing,
focusing on application for parametric tests, and addresses communication skills and tools to explain an analyst’s findings to others within an
organization. The following courses are prerequisites: The Data Analytics Journey, Data Management, and Analytics Programming.
D600 - Statistical Data Mining - Statistical Data Mining focuses on concepts in data preparation and supervised and unsupervised machine learning
techniques. The course helps students gain basic knowledge in statistics, data preparation, regression, and dimensional reduction. Learners
implement supervised models—specifically classification and prediction data mining models—to identify relationships among variables that are not
apparent with more surface-level techniques. The course also explains when, how, and why to use unsupervised models to best meet organizational
needs. The following course is a prerequisite: Data Preparation and Exploration.
D601 - Data Storytelling for Varied Audiences - Data Storytelling for Varied Audiences focuses on communicating observations and patterns to diverse
stakeholders, a key aspect of the data analytics life cycle. This course helps learners gain communication and storytelling skills in order to motivate
change and answer business problems. It also covers data visualizations, audio representations, interactive dashboards, interpersonal communication,
and presentation skills. There is no pre-requisite for this course.
D602 - Deployment - Deployment is the practice of operationalizing data analysis within a business environment. Given an analysis, learners
determine the business functional and non-functional requirements for wider use and implement pipelines and functions to deploy analyses at scale.
This course discusses topics such as security, scalability, usability, and availability. The following courses are prerequisites: Analytics Programming,
Data Management, Data Preparation, and Statistical Data Mining.
D603 - Machine Learning - Machine Learning comprises the broad discipline of developing algorithms and statistical models to predict, classify, or
cluster data and iteratively improve over time. Machine Learning focuses on building, training, running, and testing supervised and unsupervised
models and quantifying the accuracy and precision of those models to determine which may best be used in a particular business situation.
Supervised methods discussed include k-nearest neighbors, decision trees, and support vector machines. Unsupervised models discussed include k-
means clustering, hierarchical clustering, and t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE). Ensemble methods are also presented. The
following courses are prerequisites: Analytics Programming and Statistical Data Mining.
D604 - Advanced Analytics - Advanced Analytics extends analytics techniques from machine learning to artificial intelligence more broadly, including
topics in neural networks, deep learning, and natural language processing. The course covers approaches to developing these models including
PyTorch and TensorFlow. Students learn to apply a combination of techniques to solve complex business challenges including computer vision and
sentiment analysis.
D605 - Optimization - Optimization is a large class of business problems requiring the iterative algorithmic maximization or minimization or one or more
variables. Students in this course will select and use a variety of optimization approaches to address various business needs. The course covers
classes of optimization problems at a foundational level (continuous/discrete, linear/nonlinear, and bounded/unbounded) and the solving of linear
optimization problems in both Python and R through the use of gradient and non-gradient-based algorithms. Analytics Programming is a prerequisite.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 285
D606 - Data Science Capstone - Data Science Capstone integrates the key concepts from the MSDA core with the knowledge gained in the three
courses within the Data Science specialization. In this course, students will evaluate various needs and opportunities in an organization or
marketplace. In addition, students will identify business requirements and translate those business requirements into technical requirements. Finally,
students will create a comprehensive project plan to solve a problem in a way that satisfies customer or business needs. Projects within this
specialization may include the design and construction of machine learning approaches, optimization, and the use of advanced analytics techniques as
the project requires. There is no prerequisite for this course.
D607 - Cloud Databases - Cloud Databases covers the application of cloud architectures to large-scale data systems. The course discusses the
differences between cloud-native approaches to data architectures and smaller-scale systems. Students in this course apply cloud computing
concepts to address specific business scenarios. There is no prerequisite for this course.
D608 - Data Processing - Data Processing includes the practice of automating data flow into and out of components of an analytics system. Data
processing comprises a major part of the analytics life cycle in modern organizations. This course covers concepts in extract, transform, and load
(ETL) pipeline operations on data at scale and variations of ETL as a function of data repositories, including data warehouses and data lakes.
Streaming and batch data operations and their differences are discussed, and students implement pipeline solutions in cloud-native environments.
There is no prerequisite for this course.
D609 - Data Analytics at Scale - Data Analytics at Scale builds on previous data engineering courses and discusses approaches for analyzing large
data sets. The course discusses map/reduce approaches, Apache Spark, and cloud–native solutions for developing, automating, and scaling data
analytics. Also discussed are methods for integrating data processing pipelines and data stores to create comprehensive data analytics architectures.
D610 - Data Engineering Capstone - The Data Engineering Capstone has learners utilize the skills learned throughout the MDSA core courses and the
data engineering courses to examine a problem where data engineering is a solution and to build a cloud-native infrastructure that allows for data
processing. Learners are asked to implement their solutions and tell a story using the data. Course material introduces the project and reminds
learners of relevant learning resources from previous courses that will prove helpful in completing the performance assessment.
D612 - Business Process Engineering - Processes form the core of any organization and involve both manual and automated steps. Business Process
Engineering introduces how to identify processes, visualize them, and how to design and implement operational methods that promote organizations’
overall efficiency. The course covers common process engineering frameworks, the stages of process engineering present in common frameworks,
and introduces tools used to conduct business process reengineering.
D613 - Decision Intelligence - Decision Intelligence is a domain that optimizes decision-making by balancing technology, processes, and people. In
this course students learn the core principles of Decision Intelligence, exploring the augmentation of decision processes with machine learning,
comprehensive decision modeling, and the pivotal role of a “human-in-the-loop” design. Students will navigate decision theories and multi-criteria
decision analysis, gaining insight into how biases and heuristics influence decision outcomes. The course emphasizes framing decisions using causal
decision diagrams (CDD), implementing decision intelligence, evaluating the outcome using key performance indicators and determining the return on
investment of the change, and using change management techniques to help the organization adapt to new decision making strategies.
D614 - Decision Process Engineering Capstone - The Decision Process Engineering capstone integrates the learning in the MSDA core and the three
courses within the specialization. The learner evaluates various needs and opportunities in an organization or marketplace; identifies the business
requirements; translates the business requirements into technical requirements; and creates a comprehensive project plan to solve the problem in a
way that satisfies the customer or business needs. Projects within this specialization include a project management plan, decision intelligence plan, or
process engineering plan to deliver on the business need or opportunity.
D616 - Consumer Behavior - Consumer Behavior examines the buying behavior of consumers in the marketplace. Students will gain knowledge of
consumer behavior theories and an understanding of how consumer behavior concepts apply to the consumer decision-making process. Students will
learn how consumer insights are gained through the exploration of external social and cultural influences such as reference groups, family, and culture,
as well as consumer influences such as needs, motivation, personality, and learning. The course also provides an interdisciplinary perspective,
including psychology, sociology, anthropology, and economics, to better evaluate and predict consumer behavior. There are no prerequisites to this
course.
D617 - Public Health Core Functions and Essential Services - Public Health Core Functions and Essential Services builds foundational knowledge by
exploring the ethical dimensions, intervention techniques, and educational strategies crucial for effective public health practice. Participants delve into
the historical underpinnings, philosophy, and core values of public health, gaining insights into ethical principles guiding decision-making. The course
equips students with the skills to design and implement impactful public health programs, emphasizing strategies tailored for health disparities and
equity. The course navigates current issues and trends, providing a forward-looking perspective. Integrating discussions on core functions and the 10
Essential Services, the course fosters a holistic understanding of prevention science across primary, secondary, and tertiary levels in population
health, including health promotion and screening. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D618 - Environmental Health - Environmental Health provides learners with foundational knowledge, covering the relationship people have with their
environment, the risk management choices that are made, and the resulting associations that affect the health and physical well-being of individuals,
communities, and susceptible populations. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D619 - Global Health - Global Health prepares learners to identify and analyze Global Health as a field. Learners consider how globalization has
affected the health of various groups of people throughout the world. Likewise, the learner also looks at how economic and environmental factors have
different effects on different groups globally. Finally, the course presents the learner with knowledge of various global initiatives and international
organizations that strive to promote health and well-being and reduce health disparities. The learner demonstrates their knowledge and skills by
drafting an advocacy statement promoting the successful efforts of a global health organization.
D620 - Public Health Leadership and Administration - Public Health Leadership and Administration enables students to apply leadership principles for
public health leadership positions. This includes engaging, organizing, and leading diverse groups, as well as addressing ethical issues in the field of
public health. Students also apply negotiation and mediation skills to address challenges they may face in the organization or community. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D621 - Social and Behavioral Determinants of Health - Social and Behavioral Determinants of Health provides an overview of social and behavioral
determinants and their association with health behaviors, health outcomes, and health disparities. Learners examine the strategies to mitigate social
determinant barriers and apply public health theories and models to elicit behavior change and to bridge the health disparity gap. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
D622 - Public Health Assessment, Program Planning, Intervention, and Evaluation - Public Health Assessment, Program Planning, Implementation
and Evaluation explores the key components, concepts, and approaches for the public health assessment and planning process. In this course,
students will apply evidence-based practices to conduct a community needs assessment, design a health promotion program, and develop
implementation and evaluation plans. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 286
D623 - Public Health Finance and Funding - Public Health Finance and Funding offers students a field-specific approach to acquiring the budgetary
skills needed to secure funding for public health programs and manage it in prudent ways. Students learn to navigate various funding sources, such as
government grants and cooperative agreements, and philanthropic organizations. Students learn to create budgets using government documentation
both for managing funds and for persuading funding organizations of the value of projects. Finally, students conduct a variance analysis—the process
by which budgets are evaluated for feasibility after programs have launched. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D624 - Biostatistics and Analysis - Biostatistics and Analysis introduces learners to the role that biostatistics has in public health, predicting public
health outcomes and influencing decisions made with policies. Learners will examine the sources and methods of collecting public health information,
analyze and interpret quantitative data in research studies, and make inferences on the effectiveness of health program interventions and policies.
There are no prerequisites for this course.
D625 - Principles of Epidemiology - Principles of Epidemiology offers an in-depth exploration of foundational principles and methodologies crucial for
discerning and interpreting health and disease patterns in populations. Learners engage with core epidemiological concepts, encompassing measures
of disease frequency, study designs, and principles of causation. Emphasizing practical applications, the course equips learners with analytical skills
and theoretical foundations essential for conducting epidemiological research and contributing to evidence-based public health practices. Delving into
a diverse range of topics, participants cultivate a robust understanding of epidemiological principles and their real-world applications, facilitating a
seamless integration of knowledge into public health practices. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D626 - Public Health Policy and Advocacy - Public Health Policy and Advocacy prepares learners to approach public health in the political landscape.
Policy can affect the health of groups ranging in size from individual organizations to entire nations and even the globe, making this an especially
powerful and complex tool for the public health specialist. Learners in this course compare international healthcare systems, describe the policy-
making process, evaluate a policy for its impact, and advocate in favor of a public health policy. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D627 - Public Health Education and Promotion - Health Education & Promotion provides learners with a thorough understanding of this multifaceted
field, delving into its core concepts, philosophical underpinnings, and fundamental principles. The curriculum explores various teaching methods
tailored to the dynamic landscape of health education, equipping learners with versatile tools to effectively communicate health-related information.
Learners develop an appreciation for the importance of promoting well-being and preventative measures, recognizing the interconnectedness of
physical, mental, and social aspects of health. Through a combination of theoretical exploration and practical applications, this course aims to cultivate
not only a strong foundation in health education, but also essential communication skills vital for disseminating health information in diverse contexts.
Learners emerge from the course with a comprehensive skill set, ready to engage in the vital work of educating and empowering individuals and
communities to make informed decisions for a healthier future. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D628 - Public Health Graduate Capstone - Public Health Graduate Capstone enables students to investigate a public health issue in their local or
home community and recommend new approaches to address that issue. Students practice the skills they have honed over the Master of Public
Health program to design one that improves public health through education. Students control the process from research and discovery to program
design, ultimately justifying their approach to potential stakeholders.
D629 - The Reflective Practitioner - The Reflective Practitioner defines what reflective teaching is and how accomplished teachers reflect meaningfully
on their pedagogical choices to improve their practice. During this course, candidates will examine their teaching to determine how they can more
effectively plan, facilitate, and evaluate learning. Candidates will also develop a professional growth plan and incorporate evidence-based practices
that support the achievement of their professional goals. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D630 - Designing Curriculum and Instruction I - Designing Curriculum and Instruction I examines the influence that specific theories, design principles,
and evaluation models have on the quality and effectiveness of a curriculum. During the course, candidates will conduct a curriculum analysis in order
to determine the content that students need. The course requires candidates to learn how to define the scope and sequence of a curriculum to ensure
vertical and horizontal alignment. This course will also teach how to map curriculum to address any gaps or unnecessary duplication within and across
grade levels. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D631 - Designing Curriculum and Instruction II - Designing Curriculum and Instruction II examines commonly used curriculum and instructional models
and demonstrates how they can be used during the design process to achieve curricular and instructional goals. This course demonstrates how to
design curriculum and instruction that leverages digital tools to facilitate deep, authentic learning and provides strategies for ensuring successful
curriculum implementation. Designing Curriculum and Instruction I is a prerequisite for this course.
D632 - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning - Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning focuses on empowering
educational leaders with the knowledge and skills necessary to foster cultural competency, deepen their understanding of diverse learner populations,
and apply culturally responsive pedagogy. This course places a strong emphasis on promoting social justice, equity, and inclusivity within educational
contexts. Students in this course will engage in immersive learning experiences aimed at equipping them with the capacity to lead social-emotional
learning initiatives that cater to the social and emotional needs of all learners. The course also empowers students with advocacy strategies to
influence positive change in local and global educational environments, ensuring that educational leaders are well prepared to navigate the challenges
and opportunities of today's diverse educational landscape. This course is designed to be taken after successful completion of D019: Data Literacy
and Evidence-Based Practices.
D633 - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction - Leadership of Curriculum Design and Instruction prepares candidates to evaluate and
implement curricular programs and instructional methods observed at the school level. Candidates focus on the knowledge and skills needed to
develop, align, and implement cohesive systems of curriculum, instruction, and assessment. Importance is placed on responding to student needs,
embodying high expectations for student learning, aligning with academic and non-academic standards within and across grade levels, and promoting
students' academic and non-academic success and social and emotional well-being. This course also explores the use of data from formative and
summative assessments to make recommendations to improve instruction and promote student learning and well-being. Candidates are prepared to
build a professional culture of trust and collaboration to ensure they are able to work with school personnel in creating curricular programs and
instructional methods that are engaging, challenging, and relevant to student needs, experiences, and interests. This course is designed to be taken
after successful completion of D632: Cultural Competency and Social-Emotional Learning.
D634 - Health Sciences Capstone - The Health Sciences Capstone is a culminating experience for the BS in Health Sciences program. In this project-
based course, students will apply their skills obtained through the program to an issue of personal interest in the health sciences. This course requires
students to think deeply and use their creative problem-solving skills and understanding of diverse perspectives to identify a research topic and
conduct research on it. Upon completion of the capstone, students will have proposed an evidence-based strategy to address a real-world issue
related to the health sciences. Students must complete all other courses in this program before attempting the capstone. This course is eligible for an
In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 287
D635 - Practices for Inclusive Classrooms - Practices for Inclusive Classrooms empowers educators to create more inclusive and effective learning
environments. This course focuses on the principles and strategies of personalized learning, emphasizing the need to value and support the unique
needs, interests, and abilities of each learner. The course provides a foundation for learner characteristics of learners with exceptionalities and other
unique learning needs. This course helps candidates develop skills for partnering with parents and families, to advocate for all learners with
exceptionalities, including those impacted by provisions of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act. Multitiered systems of support are addressed to prepare candidates for their future classrooms as they seek to select appropriate instructional
practices and interventions to best serve their learners. These factors are also addressed in relation to online and hybrid learning environments.
D636 - Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning Environments - Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning Environments teaches educators
how to foster supportive and productive classroom climates. This course delves into the key elements that contribute to creating and maintaining a
positive learning atmosphere, such as effective communication, classroom norms and routines, and positive behavior supports. Emphasizing the
importance of a safe and inclusive environment, the course explores methods to promote student engagement, collaboration, and mutual respect
among learners. It also addresses the role of mental well-being in learning, exploring trauma-informed and restorative practices. These factors are also
addressed in relation to online and hybrid learning environments. Through a blend of theoretical frameworks and practical applications including case
studies, Establishing Positive and Engaging Learning Environments teaches learners how to develop and sustain environments that not only enhance
academic performance but also support the holistic development of students. Candidates will apply theoretical concepts to analyze a classroom
environment.
D637 - Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning - Curriculum and Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning is a dynamic
course designed for educators seeking to deepen their understanding of instructional planning and the execution of educational strategies that foster
meaningful learning experiences. This course provides candidates with the knowledge and skills necessary to create engaging and standards-aligned
lessons that meet the needs of all learners. This course also covers a range of high-leverage instructional practices to increase student learning,
engagement, and achievement. Participants will learn to utilize assessments to inform instruction, adapt teaching to accommodate all learners, and
incorporate technology to enhance learning. Candidates will reflect on research-based instructional practices.
D638 - Monitoring Student Learning Through Assessment - Monitoring Student Learning Through Assessment enhances students’ skills in evaluating
learner progress and educational outcomes. This course provides an in-depth exploration of various assessment techniques, including formative and
summative assessments, standardized tests, benchmark assessments, progress monitoring, and alternative assessment strategies. This course
teaches students to design effective assessment tools, interpret data to inform instruction, and provide meaningful feedback to learners. This course
also provides a foundation of data analysis that supports educators’ need to understand data and present data to stakeholders. It also explores online
and digital assessment tools. This course requires students to design an assessment based on evidence-based practices.
D639 - Technology for Instruction and Online Pedagogy - Technology for Instruction and Online Pedagogy is an innovative course designed to equip
educators with the skills to effectively integrate technology in their teaching practices. The course also covers best practices for online pedagogy,
assessment and feedback, collaborative learning, and the use of multimedia and interactive elements to enhance learning experiences. With a focus
on practical application, educators will leave the course ready to create and facilitate compelling, high-quality online learning experiences that meet the
needs of today’s learners. This course also provides a foundation for supporting digital literacy in K-12 education. In addition, this course prepares
candidates to use technology to improve professional productivity and effectiveness in areas like data analysis and data representations. Candidates
will apply evidence-based practices to adapt instruction to meet student needs.
D640 - Giving, Receiving and Incorporating Feedback - Giving, Receiving, and Incorporating Feedback introduces students to the skills and strategies
used to successfully receive feedback, iterate based on feedback, and provide constructive feedback to others. This course explores personal and
professional settings in different contexts, including culturally complex or diverse settings. Students will engage with their peers as they are introduced
to self-assessment and reflection as forms of feedback that can help them explore personal interests and preferences as well as professional
relationships and networks.
D641 - Adapting to Ambiguity - Adapting to Ambiguity prepares students to navigate ambiguous situations in uncertain and rapidly changing
environments. Students will collaborate with peers as they develop a proactive mindset toward ambiguity and learn how to approach ambiguous
situations through adaptability, clarity, and creative problem-solving. This course enables students to apply tools for reframing ambiguous situations,
creating a vision for success, planning incremental steps, and adapting to both personal and professional situations as growth opportunities. In
addition, students will explore the importance of a professional portfolio and how to curate artifacts for a given purpose and career goal.
D642 - Empathy and Inclusive Collaboration - Empathy and Inclusive Collaboration guides students toward understanding the value and benefits of
culturally diverse groups, identifying their own implicit and explicit biases, and applying strategies to overcome these biases. Students will learn to
leverage diverse perspectives, ensure inclusivity, apply empathetic listening strategies, and build collaborative work groups. Students will learn that
having multiple perspectives is imperative to being a creative and innovative problem-solver and developing inclusive solutions. Students will develop
an awareness of power disparity, an ability to decentralize their own perspectives, and the knowledge of how to seek deeper context on issues rather
than act through implicit bias.
D643 - Navigating Complex Problems - Navigating Complex Problems introduces students to problem-solving techniques needed to address
organizational challenges and implement solutions for desired results. Students will identify the data required to define complex problems, differentiate
between short- and long-term problems, and develop strategies for resolution. Students will focus on root cause analysis, ethics and biases,
communications, and the steps to strategically solve problems, while learning how to create an implementation plan for stakeholders.
D644 - Foundations of Strategic Communications - Foundations of Strategic Communications provides a foundation for developing clear, concise, and
compelling messaging for specific situations and audiences across various business purposes. Students will be introduced to strategic communication
theories and the legal and ethical issues to consider when planning, implementing, and evaluating communications based on intended goals,
outcomes, and audiences. In this course, students will collaborate with peers as they gain the skills necessary to be effective and ethical
communicators. Students will develop confidence in presenting ideas, persuading others, and navigating complex strategic communications situations.
D645 - Crafting a Communications Strategy Through Research and Data Insights - Crafting a Communications Strategy Through Research and Data
Insights prepares learners to develop a strategic communications plan based on data and research. Learners will conduct audience analysis, create a
persona, and create internal and external communication strategies to inform their messaging, targeting, and content creation. In this course learners
will collaborate with peers to gather insights on audience preferences and behaviors and use this information to shape audience specific
communication strategies. As learners develop the ability to harness data and research to make informed decisions, connect with their audience and
communicate ethically and effectively, they will address various stakeholder needs to achieve a desired outcome.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 288
D646 - Delivering a Communications Strategy - Delivering a Communications Strategy prepares students to create effective internal and external
communications to achieve business objectives. Students will collaborate with peers to develop content for multimedia, press releases, and social
media, to successfully implement and deliver a strategic communications plan. Students will create specific messaging for internal communications to
build strong corporate cultures, improve workplace communication, and support business needs. Students will also develop external communications
for particular goals, purposes, and audiences to ensure content relevancy. This course teaches storytelling techniques and content repurposing to
deliver multichannel communications.
D647 - Evaluating a Communications Strategy - Evaluating a Communications Strategy introduces students to key performance indicators (KPIs) used
to measure the effectiveness of strategic communications plans. Students will develop metrics that align with specific organizational performance goals
and will understand how to use these metrics to assess and improve communication strategies. As students gain hands-on experience in measuring
and optimizing communications strategies to achieve business objectives, they will select appropriate KPIs for a given strategic communications plan,
analyze results, use data visualization to present outcomes, and recommend continuous improvements. In this course, students will collaborate with
peers as they gain the skills necessary to determine KPIs and iterate on communications strategies.
D648 - Leveraging AI and Technology in Strategic Communications - Leveraging AI and Technology in Strategic Communications provides students
with the current landscape of artificial intelligence (AI), its evolution, and its impact on communications. Students will explore the ethical implications of
using AI and other emerging technologies when creating communications content. Students will gain the skills necessary to use AI and other new
technologies in ethical and innovative ways, lead teams in devising ethical guidelines for using AI in creating communications and use communication
technology to enhance organizational productivity.
D649 - Crisis Communication - Crisis Communication prepares students to plan for and manage crisis responses. Students will analyze the stages of a
crisis, create plans and messages for managing a crisis, and coach spokespeople to deliver the appropriate message using multiple channels. While
engaging in a crisis communication simulation, students will explore how to establish and maintain message positioning, foster working relationships
with news and media agencies, and build trust within stakeholder communities. Students will create internal and external crisis response
communication plans to ensure coordinated, unified, and effective messaging.
D650 - Communications Applied Learning Capstone - Communications Applied Learning Capstone provides students with real-world applications to
prepare them for the communications industry. In this course, students will integrate and apply skills gained throughout the program by working with an
organization on a strategic communications project. The capstone allows students to apply their technical knowledge while reinforcing the power skills
of giving, receiving, and incorporating feedback, demonstrating empathy and inclusive collaboration, planning within ambiguous situations, and
navigating a complex problem. Further, students will refine their portfolios and personal brands to enhance their marketability and strategically plan for
their future communications careers.
D651 - Foundations of Design - Foundations of Design introduces students to foundational theories and concepts of design. Students will develop a
comprehensive knowledge of design thinking and its implications as a problem-solving approach to identifying user needs and solving business
problems. Various types of design fields are introduced including product design, experience design, service design, visual and graphic design, and
user experience design. Equitable design considerations are explored as students gain knowledge of the design process.
D652 - Design Applications - Design Applications guides students in applying the knowledge and skills gained in Foundations of Design. Students will
gain valuable experience in using storyboards to formulate the visual representation of design concepts. The design phase will then evolve into
designing a wireframe and low-fidelity prototype using industry-standard visual design tools. Prototype designs will focus on visual composition,
interactivity, and usability. Key user-centered design principles will be applied in balance, thematic consistency, visual aesthetics, and ethical
considerations. This course provides a hands-on application to the visual and functional design process, producing industry artifacts for students'
professional portfolios.
D653 - Empathizing, Defining, and Ideating - Empathizing, Defining, and Ideating prepares students to incorporate empathy-driven, user-centered
design thinking in design solutions. This course focuses on the importance of empathy, research, and interdisciplinary collaboration in equitable design
solutions. Students gain experience ideating with diverse workgroups to define the needs of users and stakeholders through research, determine
audience segments and personas, and apply ideation strategies to create impactful, and meaningful user experience design concepts.
D654 - Prototyping and Iterating I - Prototyping and Iterating I focuses on usability testing to create user-centered digital products. Tools and
techniques are explored, including planning and conducting a usability study and iterating on a mockup that incorporates visual design principles.
Students will collaborate to gather feedback to apply to a mockup for continuous improvement. This course provides hands-on application for
producing industry artifacts for the student’s professional portfolio.
D655 - Prototyping and Iterating II - Prototyping and Iterating II applies the knowledge and skills gained in Prototyping and Iterating I. Students will
collaborate in design critique sessions to gather and incorporate feedback to design a high-fidelity prototype. Visual design principles and accessibility
considerations will be applied to ensure functionality and user interaction. This course includes building a prototype for a responsive website as part of
the Google UX Design Professional Certificate that can be included in the student’s professional portfolio.
D656 - Leveraging AI and Technology in Design - Leveraging AI and Technology in Design provides students with the current landscape of artificial
intelligence (AI), how it has evolved, and its impact on design. Students will gain the skills necessary to use AI and other new technologies in ethical
and innovative ways, lead teams in devising ethical guidelines for using AI in designing digital products and enhance organizational productivity using
design technology.
D657 - Design Applied Learning Capstone - Design Applied Learning Capstone provides students with real-world applications to prepare them for the
product and experience design industry. In this course, students will integrate and apply skills gained throughout the program by working with an
organization on a design project. The capstone lets students apply their visual and technical design knowledge while also reinforcing the power skills
of giving, receiving, and incorporating feedback, empathy and inclusive collaboration, planning within ambiguous situations, and navigating a complex
problem. Further, students will refine their portfolios and personal brand to enhance their marketability and strategically plan for their future career.
D658 - Planning Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning - Planning Instructional Strategies for Meaningful Learning is a dynamic course
designed for educators seeking to deepen their understanding of instructional planning and the execution of educational strategies that foster
meaningful learning experiences. This course provides candidates with the knowledge and skills necessary to create engaging and standards-aligned
lessons that meet the needs of all students. This course also covers a range of high-leverage instructional practices to increase student learning,
engagement, and achievement. Participants will learn to utilize assessments to inform instruction, adapt teaching to accommodate all students, and
incorporate technology to enhance learning.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 289
D659 - Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning - Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning is a targeted course crafted for candidates who aim
to enhance their skills in evaluating student progress and educational outcomes. This course provides an in-depth exploration of various assessment
techniques, including formative and summative assessments, standardized tests, benchmark assessments, progress monitoring, and alternative
assessment strategies. Participants will learn how to design effective assessment tools, interpret data to inform instruction, and provide meaningful
feedback to students. This course also provides a foundation of data analysis that supports educators’ need to understand data and present data to
stakeholders. Candidates will also explore online and digital assessment tools. Assessing and Monitoring Student Learning will prepare learners to
align assessments to standards to monitor student learning, assess data, and provide on time and quality feedback.
D660 - Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy - Instructional Technology and Online Pedagogy is an innovative course designed to equip
students with the skills to effectively integrate technology in their teaching practices. The course also covers best practices for online pedagogy,
assessment and feedback, collaborative learning, and the use of multimedia and interactive elements to enhance learning experiences. With a focus
on practical application, students will leave the course ready to create and facilitate compelling, high-quality online learning experiences that meet the
needs of today's diverse learners. This course also provides a foundation for supporting digital literacy in K–12 education. In addition, this course
prepares students to use technology to improve professional productivity and effectiveness in areas like data analysis and data representations.
D661 - Creating Positive Learning Environments - Creating Positive Learning Environments delves into the key elements that contribute to creating
and maintaining a positive learning atmosphere for educators focused on fostering supportive and productive classroom climates. The course teaches
effective communication, classroom norms and routines, and positive behavior supports. Emphasizing the importance of a safe and inclusive
environment, the course also explores methods to promote student engagement, collaboration, and mutual respect among all learners. It also
addresses the role of mental well-being in learning, exploring trauma-informed and restorative practices, which are addressed in relation to online and
hybrid learning environments. Through a blend of theoretical frameworks and practical applications including case studies, Creating Positive Learning
Environments teaches learners how to develop and sustain environments that not only enhance academic performance but also support the holistic
development of students.
D662 - Personalized Learning for Inclusive Classrooms - Personalized Learning for Inclusive Classrooms empowers educators to create more
inclusive and effective learning environments. This course focuses on the principles and strategies of personalized learning, emphasizing the need to
value and support the unique needs, interests, and abilities of each learner. The course provides a foundation for learner characteristics of learners
with exceptionalities and other unique learning needs. This course helps candidates develop skills for partnering with parents and families to advocate
for all students with exceptionalities, including those impacted by provisions of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and Section 504 of
the Rehabilitation Act. Multitiered systems of support are addressed to prepare candidates for their future classrooms as they seek to select
appropriate instructional practices and interventions to best serve their learners. These factors are also addressed in relation to online and hybrid
learning environments.
D663 - The Professional Educator - The Professional Educator prepares WGU students to excel in the exciting and impactful profession of being an
educator. Additionally, the course addresses the importance of continuous professional development and ethical considerations in teaching through
the School of Education (SOE) Professional Dispositions and Ethics. Upon completion of the course, WGU students will be equipped with the tools and
insights needed to continue their professional journey of becoming effective, inspiring, and adaptive educators, capable of making a significant impact
in the lives of their students and the broader educational community. (This is not a transferable course.)
D664 - Learners and Learning Science - Learners and Learning Science provides WGU students with a deep understanding of the science behind
learning processes. This course covers a broad spectrum of topics pertaining to the science of learning, including cognitive development, learning
theories, neuroscience in education, and the impact of developmental milestones on learning. Students will explore how these concepts apply to
learning environments and educational levels, from early childhood through adolescence. The course emphasizes evidence-based practices and the
practical application of learning science principles, equipping students with strategies to enhance learning outcomes and student engagement. This
course aims to empower educators to create more effective, inclusive, and engaging learning experiences for all learners.
D665 - Learner Development and the Science of Learning - Learner Development and the Science of Learning provides WGU students with a deep
understanding of the science behind learning processes. This course covers a broad spectrum of topics pertaining to the science of learning, including
cognitive development, learning theories, neuroscience in education, and the impact of developmental milestones on learning. Students will explore
how these concepts apply to learning environments and educational levels, from early childhood through adolescence. The course emphasizes
evidence-based practices and the practical application of learning science principles, equipping students with strategies to enhance learning outcomes
and learner engagement. This course aims to empower educators to create more effective, inclusive, and engaging learning experiences for all
learners. Candidates will evaluate science learning theories in classrooms.
D667 - Precalculus - Precalculus builds on previous math courses to provide a deeper understanding of fundamental mathematical concepts and
problem-solving skills to prepare students for calculus and professional success. The course will lead students to engage with functions, trigonometry,
systems of equations, analytic geometry, and sequences and series. Through interactive learning experiences and real-world applications, precalculus
will help students develop a deeper understanding of mathematical principles and their practical significance across diverse fields. Successful
completion of a college level algebra course is a prerequisite for this course.
D668 - Elementary Literacy Curriculum - Elementary Literacy Curriculum is a comprehensive course that deepens an educator's knowledge of
language acquisition and progressively complex concepts and skills surrounding literacy. This course explores critical elements of the science of
reading and writing, including applying key theories and research used to support the development of literacy, evaluating diverse resources, and
utilizing purposeful oral, written, and digital communication in elementary curriculum. Candidates delve into the foundational aspects of literacy,
including phonological awareness, phonics, word analysis, fluency, and comprehension, while also gaining insights into how these elements shape
and influence literacy development. This dynamic course empowers educators to create a solid foundation for students' literacy skills and a lifelong
love of reading and writing within various learning environments.
D669 - Early Literacy Methods - Early Literacy Methods is a specialized course designed for educators and professionals passionate about nurturing
literacy skills in young children. This course offers an in-depth exploration of the foundational concepts and practices essential for promoting literacy
development in early childhood through the science of reading. Emphasizing the critical development in grades PK to third grade, the curriculum
covers topics such as phonemic awareness, language acquisition, and emergent reading and writing skills. Candidates learn how to create stimulating
and inclusive literacy environments, use developmentally appropriate materials, and engage with a variety of high-quality core instruction as part of
Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of support and assessment (MTSS) suited to the various needs of young learners, including learners with dyslexia.
Additionally, the course incorporates the latest research in early childhood literacy focusing on the science of reading and best practices for how
children learn to read and write. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, this course aims to prepare candidates with the
tools to effectively guide and inspire early literacy development in their classrooms.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 290
D670 - Elementary Literacy Methods - Elementary Literacy Methods is an engaging and comprehensive course designed for aspiring educators,
focusing on the development of effective literacy teaching strategies for elementary-level students. This course reviews the fundamental principles of
literacy education through science of reading, but takes a more specialized focus on vocabulary development, reading comprehension, and the deeply
complex literacy skills developed in grades 4 to 6. Candidates explore a variety of instructional approaches and materials tailored to support all
learners in the elementary classroom, including learners with dyslexia. This exposure will assist candidates in using Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of
support and assessment (MTSS) for planning and implementing literacy lessons, selecting appropriate resources, and assessing student progress.
D671 - Elementary Science Curriculum - Elementary Science Curriculum is a comprehensive course that provides an in-depth look at the development
and implementation of a robust, inquiry-based science curriculum that aligns with current educational standards and best practices. Participants
explore key concepts in teaching science to young learners, including major concepts within the Earth, life, and physical sciences. The curriculum
emphasizes the importance of cross-cutting concepts, science and engineering practices, and disciplinary core ideas in elementary science education
to support students’ conceptual understanding. By the end of the course, educators are prepared with the foundational knowledge and tools necessary
to inspire a lifelong interest in science among their students.
D672 - Elementary Science and Engineering Methods - Elementary Science and Engineering Methods is a dynamic and forward-thinking course
designed for educators who aim to integrate science and engineering practices into their elementary classroom. This course focuses on the
foundational methods of teaching science and engineering concepts, emphasizing hands-on, experiential learning. Students explore effective
strategies for fostering inquiry, creativity, and critical thinking among young learners through science experiences, engineering projects, and the use of
technology. The curriculum covers key topics such as the three-dimensional learning approach and scientific literacy and the nature of science.
Through intentional instructional decision-making and reflective practice, educators learn to create an inclusive, stimulating, and safe learning
environment that encourages students to explore, question, innovate, and participate in productive discourse in the fields of science and engineering.
D673 - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum is a thorough course tailored for educators looking to develop
and implement a rich, engaging social studies curriculum for elementary-aged students. This course offers an in-depth examination of the key
concepts and themes essential for teaching social studies effectively at the elementary level. Emphasizing a multidisciplinary approach, the curriculum
covers history, geography, civics, economics, and culture, ensuring a well-rounded understanding of the subject. Additionally, it addresses the
incorporation of standards into curriculum planning and the promotion of civic engagement among young learners. Through a blend of theoretical
knowledge, this course aims to prepare educators with the tools necessary to align instructional strategies with social studies standards in meaningful
ways.
D674 - Elementary Social Studies Methods - Elementary Social Studies Methods is a specialized course designed for learning effective and innovative
methods for teaching social studies at the elementary level. This course delves into the best practices for introducing young learners to the
complexities of history, geography, civics, economics, and culture. It emphasizes creating engaging, meaningful, and developmentally appropriate
learning experiences that foster critical thinking, empathy, and a deeper understanding of the world. This in-depth view of civic engagement fosters
effective collaboration and dialogue surrounding the influence of these concepts on our world today. Students learn how to design instruction using
themes, concepts, and modes of inquiry throughout the social studies disciplines. By the end of this course, educators gain the skills necessary to
inspire a passion for social studies and prepare students to be informed, thoughtful citizens.
D675 - Elementary Literacy Methods - Elementary Literacy Methods is an engaging and comprehensive course designed for aspiring educators,
focusing on the development of effective literacy teaching strategies for elementary-level students. This course reviews the fundamental principles of
literacy education through science of reading, but takes a more specialized focus on vocabulary development, reading comprehension, and the deeply
complex literacy skills developed in grades 4 to 6. Candidates explore a variety of instructional approaches and materials tailored to support all
learners in the elementary classroom, including learners with dyslexia. This exposure will assist candidates in using Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of
support and assessment (MTSS) for planning and implementing literacy lessons, selecting appropriate resources, and assessing student progress.
D676 - Early Literacy Methods - Early Literacy Methods is a specialized course designed for educators and professionals passionate about nurturing
literacy skills in young children. This course offers an in-depth exploration of the foundational concepts and practices essential for promoting literacy
development in early childhood through the science of reading. Emphasizing the critical development in grades PK to third grade, the curriculum
covers topics such as phonemic awareness, language acquisition, and emergent reading and writing skills. Candidates learn how to create stimulating
and inclusive literacy environments, use developmentally appropriate materials, and engage with a variety of high-quality core instruction as part of
Tier 1 multi-tiered systems of support and assessment (MTSS) suited to the various needs of young learners, including learners with dyslexia.
Additionally, the course incorporates the latest research in early childhood literacy focusing on the science of reading and best practices for how
children learn to read and write. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, this course aims to prepare candidates with the
tools to effectively guide and inspire early literacy development in their classrooms.
D677 - Elementary Literacy Curriculum - Elementary Literacy Curriculum is a comprehensive course that deepens an educator's knowledge of
language acquisition and progressively complex concepts and skills surrounding literacy. This course explores critical elements of the science of
reading and writing, including applying key theories and research used to support the development of literacy, evaluating diverse resources, and
utilizing purposeful oral, written, and digital communication in elementary curriculum. Candidates delve into the foundational aspects of literacy,
including phonological awareness, phonics, word analysis, fluency, and comprehension, while also gaining insights into how these elements shape
and influence literacy development. This dynamic course empowers educators to create a solid foundation for students' literacy skills and a lifelong
love of reading and writing within diverse learning environments.
D678 - Elementary Science Curriculum - Elementary Science Curriculum is a comprehensive course that provides an in-depth look at the development
and implementation of a robust, inquiry-based science curriculum that aligns with current educational standards and best practices. Participants
explore key concepts in teaching science to young learners, including major concepts within the Earth, life, and physical sciences. The curriculum
emphasizes the importance of cross-cutting concepts, science and engineering practices, and disciplinary core ideas in elementary science education
to support students’ conceptual understanding. By the end of the course, educators are prepared with the foundational knowledge and tools necessary
to inspire a lifelong interest in science among their students.
D679 - Elementary Science and Engineering Methods - "Elementary Science and Engineering Methods" is a dynamic and forward-thinking course
designed for educators who aim to integrate science and engineering practices into their elementary classroom. This course focuses on the
foundational methods of teaching science and engineering concepts, emphasizing hands-on, experiential learning. Students explore effective
strategies for fostering inquiry, creativity, and critical thinking among young learners through science experiences, engineering projects, and the use of
technology. The curriculum covers key topics such as the three-dimensional learning approach and scientific literacy and the nature of science.
Through intentional instructional decision-making and reflective practice, educators learn to create an inclusive, stimulating, and safe learning
environment that encourages students to explore, question, innovate, and participate in productive discourse in the fields of science and engineering.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 291
D680 - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum - Elementary Social Studies Curriculum is a thorough course tailored for educators looking to develop
and implement a rich, engaging social studies curriculum for elementary-aged students. This course offers an in-depth examination of the key
concepts and themes essential for teaching social studies effectively at the elementary level. Emphasizing a multidisciplinary approach, the curriculum
covers history, geography, civics, economics, and culture, ensuring a well-rounded understanding of the subject. Additionally, it addresses the
incorporation of standards into curriculum planning and the promotion of civic engagement among young learners. Through a blend of theoretical
knowledge, this course aims to prepare educators with the tools necessary to align instructional strategies with social studies standards in meaningful
ways.
D681 - Elementary Social Studies Methods - Elementary Social Studies Methods is a specialized course designed for learning effective and innovative
methods for teaching social studies at the elementary level. This course delves into the best practices for introducing young learners to the
complexities of history, geography, civics, economics, and culture. It emphasizes creating engaging, meaningful, and developmentally appropriate
learning experiences that foster critical thinking, empathy, and a deeper understanding of the world. This in-depth view of civic engagement fosters
effective collaboration and dialogue surrounding the influence of these concepts on our world today. Students learn how to design instruction using
themes, concepts, and modes of inquiry throughout the social studies disciplines. By the end of this course, educators gain the skills necessary to
inspire a passion for social studies and prepare students to be informed, thoughtful citizens.
D682 - Artificial Intelligence Optimization for Computer Scientists - Artificial Intelligence Optimization for Computer Scientists guides students through
the implementation and optimization of artificial intelligence (AI) solutions for various applications. Through extensive research, students will explore
different AI approaches and determine the most applicable solutions for specific scenarios. Practical, hands-on exercises will enable students to
implement and rigorously test AI solutions, thus honing their skills in optimizing AI models for enhanced performance and efficiency. Additionally, this
course delves into creating data assumptions and interpretations that are crucial for predictive analytics and future data forecasting. Finally, students
will adapt and extend AI solutions to address diverse application scenarios, ensuring their readiness to tackle real-world challenges in AI optimization
and deployment. Introduction to Artificial Intelligence for Computer Scientists is a prerequisite to this course.
D683 - Advanced AI and ML - Advanced AI and ML provides an opportunity for students to exercise their knowledge and skills in the design and
development of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) solutions for real-world business problems. Through a hands-on project, students
delve into the design and execution planning stages. The course culminates with the development of a fully functional AI/ ML product.
D684 - Introduction to Computer Science - Introduction to Computer Science introduces learners to the field of computer science and its essential
concepts. In this course students will explore, among other topics, programming basics through language-agnostic pseudocode, computational
thinking and problem-solving, algorithms, hardware, and social and ethical considerations in the field. This course is designed for beginners to gain a
solid understanding of computer science principles and their applications and prepare students for further study in the field. There are no prerequisites
for this course.
D685 - Practical Applications of Prompt - The Practical Applications of Prompt course introduces learners to generative artificial intelligence (AI). This
course aims to allow learners to gain skills for writing effective prompts and develop more effective conversations with artificial intelligence. Practical
Applications of Prompt will lead learners to explore why prompt engineering is necessary. The course also aims to help learners, regardless of
background, increase prompt fluency, which is fluency in using prompt effectively. The course teaches learners how to create effective prompts to elicit
information with consideration of scope, specificity, and context; additionally, it teaches learners to evaluate the medium of the prompt and adjust
prompts to output relevant results. The last section of the course focuses on ways to evaluate the efficacy of prompts and improve the depth and
quality of analytical investigations. This approach prepares students to navigate the complexities of working with generative AI and use these skills
effectively throughout their careers.
D686 - Operating Systems for Computer Scientists - Operating Systems for Computer Scientists focuses on the intricacies of operating systems. This
comprehensive course for computer science students covers core principles such as processes, threads, memory management, and file systems,
providing students with insights into CPU scheduling algorithms, deadlock handling, and system performance optimization. Additionally, the course
delves into security mechanisms, addressing common threats and preventative measures. Through a blend of theoretical concepts and practical
applications, students emerge equipped to adeptly navigate operating system features and prepared for real-world challenges in computer science.
D687 - Computer Science Project Development with a Team - Computer Science Project Development with a Team has students prepare a prior
project for submission to a mock technical and executive leadership team. This course expands on the coding work done in a previous course, asking
students to submit three artifacts. The final artifact is a business proposal aimed at convincing stakeholders to implement the project, which includes
an executive summary of product requirements directed at the IT audience, as well as a technical report of the fully functional data product intended to
solve a real-world problem. Artifacts are evaluated by peer team members prior to submission, and students practice giving, receiving, and integrating
feedback into their work process.
D688 - Foundations of Literacy Through Literature - Foundations of Literacy through Literature is an enriching course designed for educators and
literacy enthusiasts, focusing on the exploration and utilization of literature to foster growth in the skills and concepts necessary for reading. This
course delves into the role of varied and age-appropriate literary works in the science of reading to develop reading, writing, speaking, and listening
abilities in learners. Students examine a broad range of genres to understand how different texts can be used to enhance vocabulary, comprehension,
and critical thinking. This analysis allows the candidate to not only successfully integrate literature into meaningful instruction, but it is designed to
cultivate a deep appreciation for reading itself. The curriculum emphasizes interactive and creative teaching strategies to engage learners effectively
and integrate culture into their literacy instruction. The candidate is given real-world examples for how to create an inclusive environment that respects
and celebrates different perspectives through quality text. By the end of the course, students are prepared with the knowledge and practical skills to
use literature as a powerful tool in the development of comprehensive literacy skills.
D689 - Literacy Assessment and Interventions - Literacy Assessment and Interventions is an essential course for candidates to enhance their skills in
identifying and addressing literacy challenges in all student populations, including students with dyslexia, through Tier1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 multi-tiered
systems of support and assessment (MTSS). This course reviews the science of reading associated with a wide range of assessments and techniques
used to evaluate reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills. Students learn to administer and interpret assessments, using the data to identify
specific literacy needs and learning gaps. A significant focus of the course is on designing and implementing targeted intervention strategies to support
student learning in areas, such as phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, comprehension, and vocabulary development. By exploring and
implementing actionable steps to monitor student progress, candidates gain expertise in improving literacy outcomes for all learners.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 292
D690 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy is an innovative course designed for candidates seeking to deepen their
understanding and application of literacy skills within specific academic disciplines. This course focuses on the unique literacy demands of content
disciplines, exploring how reading, writing, speaking, and listening are used differently in each domain. Students investigate the specialized language
structures and text features inherent to each discipline and learn strategies to help learners navigate and master these complexities. The curriculum
emphasizes the development of skills through the science of reading that enable candidates to guide learners in critically engaging with and producing
disciplinary texts. Candidates also explore ways to integrate technology and digital literacy into their teaching practices, enhancing students' ability to
access, interpret, and share discipline-specific information. Through a blend of research-based evidence and authentic learning activities using
structured literacy practices, this course aims to give educators the skills needed to effectively teach disciplinary literacy, thereby improving student
achievement and content understanding across all areas of study.
D691 - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum is a detailed and practical course designed for educators who seek
to expand their knowledge of the mathematics curriculum in elementary classrooms. This course provides the essential mathematical concepts
suitable for young learners, including numbers, operations, and algebraic thinking, spanning through the domains of geometry, measurement, data,
statistics, and probability. Emphasis is placed on engaging with a curriculum that not only aligns with educational standards but also nurtures a love for
mathematics. By the end of this course, candidates are provided with the tools and confidence to foster a strong mathematical foundation in their
elementary students.
D692 - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions is a comprehensive course designed for
educators focused on advancing mathematics education in the early elementary grades. This course emphasizes innovative and research-based
teaching methods for developing mathematical understanding in young children, particularly in the crucial developmental stages in PK through the
early elementary grades Participants will explore a variety of instructional strategies to support conceptual understanding and procedural fluency in
areas such as number sense, basic operations, and early problem-solving skills. A significant aspect of the course involves identifying and addressing
learning needs through targeted interventions, personalized instruction, and the use of manipulatives and digital tools. The curriculum also highlights
the importance of creating an engaging and inclusive learning environment that encourages exploration and curiosity in mathematics. By integrating
assessment techniques and thoughtful learning experiences, this course aims to provide educators with the skills to effectively nurture early
mathematical abilities and lay a strong foundation for future academic success in mathematics.
D693 - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions is an engaging course crafted for
educators who are dedicated to strengthening and enriching the mathematics education of elementary students. This course focuses on practical,
research-supported strategies for teaching essential mathematical concepts, including number operations, geometry, measurement, and data analysis.
This course includes resources for all elementary grade levels with a significant focus on grades 3 to 6. Participants learn to identify and assess
students' mathematical understanding, create differentiated learning experiences, and implement effective interventions for diverse learner needs.
Emphasis is placed on constructing a classroom environment that promotes mathematical curiosity, problem-solving, meaningful discourse, and a
growth mindset. Students acquire the skills to build authentic mathematics experiences that caters to the varied needs of all students, setting a firm
foundation for their future academic success in mathematics.
D694 - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods is a course designed to provide
educators with the knowledge and techniques to deliver effective and comprehensive health and physical education (PE) experiences in elementary
schools. This course covers a spectrum of topics, from fundamental movement skills to the promotion of lifelong health and wellness habits among
young learners. Students engage with current pedagogical approaches that emphasize the integration of health and physical education across various
subjects. The curriculum aims to address the needs of all students, fostering an inclusive environment that supports physical, mental, emotional, and
social health. Future educators also learn how to assess student progress in physical education and incorporate technology to enhance learning
experiences. By the end of this course, participants are prepared to inspire and motivate elementary students to lead active, healthy lifestyles and to
implement a health and PE curriculum.
D695 - Elementary Fine Arts Methods - Elementary Fine Arts Methods is a vibrant course designed for educators who wish to integrate the fine arts
into the elementary classroom. This course examines the best practices for teaching elements of the fine arts to young learners. Educators explore a
variety of instructional strategies to engage all learners, including activities developmentally appropriate and culturally responsive. The curriculum also
involves using the creative process and integrating with other content areas. By the end of the course, educators are equipped to foster an enriching
arts environment that encourages students to explore their creative potential.
D696 - Foundations of Literacy Through Literature - Foundations of Literacy through Literature is an enriching course designed for educators and
literacy enthusiasts, focusing on the exploration and utilization of literature to foster growth in the skills and concepts necessary for reading. This
course delves into the role of varied and age-appropriate literary works in the science of reading to develop reading, writing, speaking, and listening
abilities in learners. Students examine a broad range of genres to understand how different texts can be used to enhance vocabulary, comprehension,
and critical thinking. This analysis allows the candidate to not only successfully integrate literature into meaningful instruction, but it is designed to
cultivate a deep appreciation for reading itself. The curriculum emphasizes interactive and creative teaching strategies to engage learners effectively
and integrate culture into their literacy instruction. The candidate is given real-world examples for how to create an inclusive environment that respects
and celebrates different perspectives through quality text. By the end of the course, students are prepared with the knowledge and practical skills to
use literature as a powerful tool in the development of comprehensive literacy skills.
D697 - Literacy Assessment and Interventions - Literacy Assessment and Interventions is an essential course for candidates to enhance their skills in
identifying and addressing literacy challenges in all student populations, including students with dyslexia, through Tier1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 multi-tiered
systems of support and assessment (MTSS). This course reviews the science of reading associated with a wide range of assessments and techniques
used to evaluate reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills. Students learn to administer and interpret assessments, using the data to identify
specific literacy needs and learning gaps. A significant focus of the course is on designing and implementing targeted intervention strategies to support
student learning in areas, such as phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, comprehension, and vocabulary development. By exploring and
implementing actionable steps to monitor student progress, candidates gain expertise in improving literacy outcomes for all learners.
D698 - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy - Elementary Disciplinary Literacy is an innovative course designed for candidates seeking to deepen their
understanding and application of literacy skills within specific academic disciplines. This course focuses on the unique literacy demands of content
disciplines, exploring how reading, writing, speaking, and listening are used differently in each domain. Students investigate the specialized language
structures and text features inherent to each discipline and learn strategies to help learners navigate and master these complexities. The curriculum
emphasizes the development of skills through the science of reading that enable candidates to guide learners in critically engaging with and producing
disciplinary texts. Candidates also explore ways to integrate technology and digital literacy into their teaching practices, enhancing students' ability to
access, interpret, and share discipline-specific information. Through a blend of research-based evidence and authentic learning activities using
structured literacy practices, this course aims to give educators the skills needed to effectively teach disciplinary literacy, thereby improving student
achievement and content understanding across all areas of study.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 293
D699 - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum - Elementary Mathematics Curriculum is a detailed and practical course designed for educators who seek
to expand their knowledge of the mathematics curriculum in elementary classrooms. This course provides the essential mathematical concepts
suitable for young learners, including numbers, operations, and algebraic thinking, spanning through the domains of geometry, measurement, data,
statistics, and probability. Emphasis is placed on engaging with a curriculum that not only aligns with educational standards but also nurtures a love for
mathematics. By the end of this course, candidates are provided with the tools and confidence to foster a strong mathematical foundation in their
elementary students.
D700 - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Early Mathematics Methods and Interventions is a comprehensive course designed for
educators focused on advancing mathematics education in the early elementary grades. This course emphasizes innovative and research-based
teaching methods for developing mathematical understanding in young children, particularly in the crucial developmental stages in PK through the
early elementary grades Participants will explore a variety of instructional strategies to support conceptual understanding and procedural fluency in
areas such as number sense, basic operations, and early problem-solving skills. A significant aspect of the course involves identifying and addressing
learning needs through targeted interventions, personalized instruction, and the use of manipulatives and digital tools. The curriculum also highlights
the importance of creating an engaging and inclusive learning environment that encourages exploration and curiosity in mathematics. By integrating
assessment techniques and thoughtful learning experiences, this course aims to provide educators with the skills to effectively nurture early
mathematical abilities and lay a strong foundation for future academic success in mathematics.
D701 - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions - Elementary Mathematics Methods and Interventions is an engaging course crafted for
educators who are dedicated to strengthening and enriching the mathematics education of elementary students. This course focuses on practical,
research-supported strategies for teaching essential mathematical concepts, including number operations, geometry, measurement, and data analysis.
This course includes resources for all elementary grade levels with a significant focus on grades 3 to 6. Participants learn to identify and assess
students' mathematical understanding, create differentiated learning experiences, and implement effective interventions for diverse learner needs.
Emphasis is placed on constructing a classroom environment that promotes mathematical curiosity, problem-solving, meaningful discourse, and a
growth mindset. Students acquire the skills to build authentic mathematics experiences that caters to the varied needs of all students, setting a firm
foundation for their future academic success in mathematics.
D702 - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods - Elementary Health and Physical Education Methods is a course designed to provide
educators with the knowledge and techniques to deliver effective and comprehensive health and physical education (PE) experiences in elementary
schools. This course covers a spectrum of topics, from fundamental movement skills to the promotion of lifelong health and wellness habits among
young learners. Students engage with current pedagogical approaches that emphasize the integration of health and physical education across various
subjects. The curriculum aims to address the needs of all students, fostering an inclusive environment that supports physical, mental, emotional, and
social health. Future educators also learn how to assess student progress in physical education and incorporate technology to enhance learning
experiences. By the end of this course, participants are prepared to inspire and motivate elementary students to lead active, healthy lifestyles and to
implement a health and PE curriculum.
D703 - Elementary Fine Arts Methods - Elementary Fine Arts Methods is a vibrant course designed for educators who wish to integrate the fine arts
into the elementary classroom. This course examines the best practices for teaching elements of the fine arts to young learners. Educators explore a
variety of instructional strategies to engage all learners, including activities developmentally appropriate and culturally responsive. The curriculum also
involves using the creative process and integrating with other content areas. By the end of the course, educators are equipped to foster an enriching
arts environment that encourages students to explore their creative potential.
D705 - Early Clinical in Special Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge
and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the mentorship of
experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of classroom dynamics,
student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants to analyze their
experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future teachers with the
confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D706 - Early Clinical in Elementary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D707 - Early Clinical in Secondary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D708 - Advanced Clinical in Elementary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D709 - Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 294
D717 - Student Teaching I in Elementary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D718 - Student Teaching II in Elementary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D719 - Student Teaching I in Special Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate and
reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies rooted in students'
learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will receive ongoing
feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional practices as
educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant. Additionally, the course
features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive learning environments,
and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D720 - Student Teaching II in Special Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate professional
ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and skills
developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D721 - Student Teaching I in Secondary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D722 - Student Teaching II in Secondary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D723 - Advanced Clinical in Special Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D724 - Early Clinical in Elementary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D725 - Early Clinical in Special Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge
and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the mentorship of
experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of classroom dynamics,
student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants to analyze their
experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future teachers with the
confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 295
D726 - Early Clinical in Secondary Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between theoretical
knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D727 - Advanced Clinical in Elementary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D728 - Advanced Clinical in Special Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D729 - Advanced Clinical in Secondary Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience. This course
emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom environments
under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement techniques,
instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment. Through this
immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching style and
philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part of an
engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D737 - Student Teaching I in Elementary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D738 - Student Teaching II in Elementary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D739 - Student Teaching I in Special Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate and
reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies rooted in students'
learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will receive ongoing
feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional practices as
educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant. Additionally, the course
features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive learning environments,
and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D740 - Student Teaching II in Special Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all candidates
seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate professional
ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and skills
developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D741 - Student Teaching I in Secondary Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 296
D742 - Student Teaching II in Secondary Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for all
candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to demonstrate
professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the responsibilities and
skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This evaluation assesses
activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust teaching methods, and the
willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the licensure process, as it
determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into
professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must attend the
required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D743 - Education Portfolio - Education Portfolio is an innovative course designed to guide candidates in the creation and development of a
comprehensive professional portfolio, specifically tailored for educators. This course emphasizes the importance of documenting and reflecting upon
one's educational philosophy, teaching experiences, and professional achievements. Candidates learn how to effectively showcase their skills in
curriculum design, classroom management, student assessment, and educational technology. The course also covers strategies for integrating
evidence of student learning and feedback into the portfolio. Candidates create a polished and dynamic portfolio that not only highlights their unique
educational journey, but also serves as a powerful tool for career advancement and lifelong learning in the field of education.
D744 - Student Teaching I in Elementary and Special Education - Student Teaching I is the first part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course for
all candidates seeking initial licensure. This course provides a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate and reflect upon professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies
rooted in students' learning and developmental patterns. Building on the responsibilities and skills developed in Advanced Clinical, candidates will
receive ongoing feedback through observations and evaluations. Feedback will encourage candidates to reflect on their commitment to professional
practices as educators, analyze and adjust teaching methods, and explore new teaching materials and methods that are culturally relevant.
Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions that delve into communication and collaboration, accepting feedback, creating positive
learning environments, and technology and online learning. Candidates must attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their
classroom placement.
D745 - Student Teaching II in Elementary and Special Education - Student Teaching II is the final part of a two-part series and is a mandatory course
for all candidates seeking initial licensure. The course offers a supervised classroom experience in a real-world setting, allowing candidates to
demonstrate professional ethics and dispositions, collaborate with experienced teachers, and implement instructional strategies. Building on the
responsibilities and skills developed in Student Teaching I, candidates receive ongoing feedback through observations and a final evaluation. This
evaluation assesses activities' relevance and cultural engagement, the effectiveness of teaching each student, the ability to analyze and adjust
teaching methods, and the willingness to explore new materials and methods. Successful completion of Student Teaching II is a crucial step in the
licensure process, as it determines eligibility for licensure as a professional educator. Additionally, the course features synchronous learning sessions
that delve into professional development topics such as professional growth opportunities, ethical decision making, and self-care. Candidates must
attend the required synchronous learning sessions in addition to their classroom placement.
D750 - Early Clinical in Elementary and Special Education - Early Clinical Experiences is a pivotal course designed to bridge the gap between
theoretical knowledge and practical teaching skills. This course offers aspiring educators an immersive experience in real classroom settings under the
mentorship of experienced teachers. Candidates engage in a range of activities, including observation, to develop a deeper understanding of
classroom dynamics, student engagement, and effective instructional strategies. Emphasizing reflective practice, the course encourages participants
to analyze their experiences, integrate feedback, and adapt their teaching methods accordingly. This experiential learning approach equips future
teachers with the confidence and competence necessary to foster a positive and impactful learning environment for their students.
D751 - Advanced Clinical in Elementary and Special Education - Advanced Clinical provides aspiring educators with real-world classroom experience.
This course emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning, offering candidates the unique opportunity to observe and participate in classroom
environments under the guidance of experienced mentors. The curriculum includes demonstrating reflective practice, classroom engagement
techniques, instructional strategies, and effective communication skills with students and colleagues through a pedagogical performance assessment.
Through this immersive experience, candidates not only observe the daily responsibilities of a teacher, but also start to develop their own teaching
style and philosophy, laying a solid foundation for their future careers in education. This course is taken immediately prior to Student Teaching I as part
of an engaging and intensive clinical experience.
D752 - The Education Professional - The Education Professional prepares WGU students to excel in the exciting and impactful profession of being an
educator. Additionally, the course addresses the importance of continuous professional development and ethical considerations in teaching through
the School of Education (SOE) Professional Dispositions and Ethics. Upon completion of the course, WGU students will be equipped with the tools and
insights needed to continue their professional journey of becoming effective, inspiring, and adaptive educators, capable of making a significant impact
in the lives of their students and the broader educational community. Students will also start a research-based professional portfolio. (This is not a
transferable course.)
D753 - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis prepares
special education teachers to work effectively with students exhibiting challenging behaviors, with a focus on students with behavioral and emotional
exceptionalities. This course provides an overview of behavior disorders and their characteristics, as well as appropriate research-based intervention
strategies, including positive behavior intervention and supports, multitiered systems of support (MTSS), applied behavior analysis, replacement
behavior, and reinforcement strategies, culturally responsive practices, and data collection and assessment methods. After completing this course,
learners emerge prepared to strategize and recommend adjustments to the learning environment that support positive behavior and student success in
the classroom and beyond. This course also examines behavioral assessment and analysis, functional behavior assessment (FBA), and the creation
and monitoring of behavioral improvement plans (BIP) that can be implemented in an authentic learning environment.
D754 - Special Education Law, Policies and Procedures - Special Education Law, Policies, and Procedures prepares special education teachers to
practice within legal and ethical guidelines as they navigate the Special Education processes, stakeholder interactions, and other complex situations.
This course provides an overview of the professional ethics and professional practice standards of the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC), which
guides candidates to act in a professionally conscientious manner. Candidates will explore special education legal foundations and case laws to apply
legal foundations and ethical practices in special education process compliance.
D755 - Assessment for Special Education - Assessment for Special Education prepares special education teachers to use multiple methods of
assessment and data sources in making educational decisions concerning the student and their learning environment. This course is designed to help
provide an understanding of how assessment data is used during screening in multitiered systems of support (MTSS), the eligibility process, the
evaluation process, progress monitoring, and data-based instructional decision making.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 297
D756 - Individualized Education Plan (IEP) Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff - Individualized Education Plan (IEP)
Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff prepares special education teachers to collaborate effectively with parents, school
staff, and other professionals to plan programs and access services for students with exceptionalities. This includes applying culturally responsive
communication strategies within school, educational settings, and the community. The course introduces ways to enhance parental involvement and
family engagement while teaching families and students advocacy throughout the Individualized Education Plan (IEP) and transition planning
processes. The learner will create an IEP and then engage in a simulated IEP annual review where they will practice effective communication and
collaboration skills key to the program's development and implementation. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experiences that
includes a simulated collaborative experience in which skills learned can be applied.
D757 - Special Education Curriculum - Special Education Curriculum is designed for candidates who plan to teach in a special education program at
any grade level from kindergarten through grade 12. This course reviews the basic principles of special education and their application in realistic
situations. Its focus is on five major content areas: Development and Characteristics of Learners, Planning and the Learning Environment, Instruction,
Assessment, and Foundations and Professional Responsibilities which align to CEC Standards.
D758 - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners is designed to introduce special
education teachers to a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the learning of students with exceptionalities. The course
focuses specifically on strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions; making instructional decisions based on progress-
monitoring data; collaborating with general education teachers and paraprofessionals; teaching to mastery; promoting generalization of learning; and
teaching students with exceptionalities how to use self-assessment, problem solving, and other cognitive strategies to organize critical content and
meet their needs.
D759 - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for elementary
students with exceptionalities. The course includes cognitive and metacognitive strategies that elementary students can use to acquire new content
knowledge and generalize skills across learning environments. It also provides opportunities for learners to incorporate intensive instructional
strategies and practice making accommodations that include assistive technologies to elementary math and English language arts lesson plans based
on learner characteristics, performance data, and individualized education program (IEP) goals.
D760 - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for use with
secondary students with exceptionalities. This course focuses on intensive instruction and accommodation that includes assistive technology to
secondary lesson plans. Learners will apply strategies to develop student critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Learners will assess and measure
student progress towards the Individualized Education Program (IEP) and transition goals for post-secondary and career preparation.
D761 - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis - Behavioral Intervention Strategies and Applied Behavior Analysis prepares
special education teachers to work effectively with students exhibiting challenging behaviors, with a focus on students with behavioral and emotional
exceptionalities. This course provides an overview of behavior disorders and their characteristics, as well as appropriate research-based intervention
strategies, including positive behavior intervention and supports, multitiered systems of support (MTSS), applied behavior analysis, replacement
behavior, and reinforcement strategies, culturally responsive practices, and data collection and assessment methods. After completing this course,
learners emerge prepared to strategize and recommend adjustments to the learning environment that support positive behavior and student success in
the classroom and beyond. This course also examines behavioral assessment and analysis, functional behavior assessment (FBA), and the creation
and monitoring of behavioral improvement plans (BIP) that can be implemented in an authentic learning environment.
D762 - Special Education Law, Policies and Procedures - Special Education Law, Policies, and Procedures prepares special education teachers to
practice within legal and ethical guidelines as they navigate the Special Education processes, stakeholder interactions, and other complex situations.
This course provides an overview of the professional ethics and professional practice standards of the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC), which
guides candidates to act in a professionally conscientious manner. Candidates will explore special education legal foundations and case laws to apply
legal foundations and ethical practices in special education process compliance.
D763 - Assessment for Special Education - Assessment for Special Education prepares special education teachers to use multiple methods of
assessment and data sources in making educational decisions concerning the student and their learning environment. This course is designed to help
provide an understanding of how assessment data is used during screening in multitiered systems of support (MTSS), the eligibility process, the
evaluation process, progress monitoring, and data-based instructional decision making.
D764 - Individualized Education Plan (IEP) Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff - Individualized Education Plan (IEP)
Collaboration and Communication with Parents and School Staff prepares special education teachers to collaborate effectively with parents, school
staff, and other professionals to plan programs and access services for students with exceptionalities. This includes applying culturally responsive
communication strategies within school, educational settings, and the community. The course introduces ways to enhance parental involvement and
family engagement while teaching families and students advocacy throughout the Individualized Education Plan (IEP) and transition planning
processes. The learner will create an IEP and then engage in a simulated IEP annual review where they will practice effective communication and
collaboration skills key to the program's development and implementation. Candidates will engage in three hours of preclinical experiences that
includes a simulated collaborative experience in which skills learned can be applied.
D765 - Special Education Curriculum - Special Education Curriculum is designed for candidates who plan to teach in a special education program at
any grade level from kindergarten through grade 12. This course reviews the basic principles of special education and their application in realistic
situations. Its focus is on five major content areas: Development and Characteristics of Learners, Planning and the Learning Environment, Instruction,
Assessment, and Foundations and Professional Responsibilities which align to CEC Standards.
D766 - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners - Considerations for Instructional Planning for Learners is designed to introduce special
education teachers to a repertoire of evidence-based instructional strategies to advance the learning of students with exceptionalities. The course
focuses specifically on strategies for intensifying and individualizing instructional interventions; making instructional decisions based on progress-
monitoring data; collaborating with general education teachers and paraprofessionals; teaching to mastery; promoting generalization of learning; and
teaching students with exceptionalities how to use self-assessment, problem solving, and other cognitive strategies to organize critical content and
meet their needs.
D767 - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Elementary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for elementary
students with exceptionalities. The course includes cognitive and metacognitive strategies that elementary students can use to acquire new content
knowledge and generalize skills across learning environments. It also provides opportunities for learners to incorporate intensive instructional
strategies and practice making accommodations that include assistive technologies to elementary math and English language arts lesson plans based
on learner characteristics, performance data, and individualized education program (IEP) goals.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 298
D768 - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive Technologies - Secondary Literacy and Mathematics Strategies and Assistive
Technologies prepares special education teachers to use progress monitoring and evidence-based instructional practices appropriate for use with
secondary students with exceptionalities. This course focuses on intensive instruction and accommodation that includes assistive technology to
secondary lesson plans. Learners will apply strategies to develop student critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Learners will assess and measure
student progress towards the Individualized Education Program (IEP) and transition goals for post-secondary and career preparation.
D769 - Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions - Secondary Literacy Methods & Interventions utilizes MTSS to equip educators with evidence-
based strategies to address adolescents' reading challenges through the Multi-Tiered System of Supports Model. Candidates learn to identify, monitor,
and provide differentiated instruction, integrating screening tools and progress monitoring to enhance comprehension. The course emphasizes the
development of personalized intervention plans while utilizing reading assessments for informed instructional decisions. By completion, candidates
compile intervention strategies supporting learners across MTSS tiers, fostering inclusive environments for academic success.
D770 - Secondary Literacy Methods and Interventions - Secondary Literacy Methods & Interventions utilizes MTSS to equip educators with evidence-
based strategies to address adolescents' reading challenges through the Multi-Tiered System of Supports Model. Candidates learn to identify, monitor,
and provide differentiated instruction, integrating screening tools and progress monitoring to enhance comprehension. The course emphasizes the
development of personalized intervention plans while utilizing reading assessments for informed instructional decisions. By completion, candidates
compile intervention strategies supporting learners across MTSS tiers, fostering inclusive environments for academic success.
D771 - Quantitative Literacy - Quantitative Literacy views real-world problems through the lens of quantitative reasoning. The application of quantitative
concepts to topics such as financial decisions is explored. Algebraic models and functions, as well as principles of geometry, are reviewed as
fundamental ways to explore real-life scenarios. The use of mathematical concepts as a tool for modeling and understanding everyday problems is
leveraged to promote students' thinking of math as a useful and relevant tool for many situations and scenarios. Numeracy and quantitative thinking
skills are developed through these applications.
D772 - Statistical Data Literacy - Statistical Data Literacy utilizes concepts in statistics, research, data, and data representation to explore the
interpretation of data and their application to decision-making. The course uses real-world scenarios to build upon foundational principles of data
collection and description. The use of data to make and explain decisions is also explored. The course also builds on skills of descriptive statistics and
graphical depictions of data to help students understand data and make data-based decisions. This course has no prerequisites.
D773 - Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and Society - Technology and Ethics: Emerging Trends and Society explores the intersection of
ethical thinking and technological innovations. A foundational introduction to ethical frameworks is applied to emerging trends in technology, including
artificial intelligence, social media, and other forms of digital media. This course examines the impact of technology on our understanding of self, as
well as the individual’s role in interacting with others in a globalized society. The course helps students gain the ability to recognize ethical actions
within the context of current and newly evolving technological landscapes. This course has no prerequisites.
D774 - Introduction to Business Accounting - Introduction to Business Accounting provides students with an introduction to the discipline of accounting
and its context within the business environment. This course will help students gain a fundamental knowledge of the role of financial and managerial
accounting and the use of financial statements, budgeting, and managing costs and profits in business. This course is designed for business generalist
students. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D775 - Introduction to Business Finance - Introduction to Business Finance provides students with an introductory look at the discipline of finance and
its context within the business environment. This course will help students gain an understanding of the systems, structure, roles, and impact of
finance in business. Students will also gain an understanding of the uses of financial ratios, the application of the time value of money concepts, and
capital budgeting in business. This course provides the student a business generalist overview of the field of finance. The prerequisite for this course is
Introduction to Business Accounting.
D776 - Healthcare Leadership and Community Engagement - Healthcare Leadership and Community Engagement focuses on leadership principles
and how to apply them in real-world contexts. The course prepares students to analyze community needs and create change through community
engagement. As leaders, the students' job is to engage in collaborative approaches with an understanding that the overarching goal is sustained
success. This course helps students develop their abilities to negotiate challenges, make decisions, and act to bring stakeholders together to create
transformation within communities. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D777 - Real Life Applications of Data Structures - Real Life Applications of Data Structures covers basic to advanced topics in data structures and their
associated algorithms with a focus on real world examples and applications. This course focuses on problem-solving techniques for designing efficient
and maintainable software solutions using Python.
D778 - Advanced Software Engineering - Advanced Software Engineering delves into the intricate processes and methodologies essential for
developing sophisticated, scalable software architectures. This course offers an in-depth exploration of the software engineering lifecycle, emphasizing
a disciplined approach to navigating the complex challenges of software engineering. Students will explore advanced process frameworks and
methodologies, including the Waterfall Model and Agile Development, tailored to large-scale and high-stakes projects.
D779 - Software Product Design and Requirement Engineering - Software Product Design and Requirement Engineering provides an in-depth
exploration into effectively integrating user needs and system requirements into software development. This course covers topics from types of
requirements, requirement gathering techniques, prioritization, and documentation.
D780 - Software Architecture and Design - This course covers topics in designing, analyzing, and managing large-scale software systems. Students
will learn various architecture types, how to select and implement appropriate design patterns, and how to build well-structured, reliable, and secure
software systems.
D781 - Software Quality Assurance and Deployment - This course equips students with the skills and knowledge necessary for ensuring high-quality
software development and effective deployment practices. The curriculum covers quality models and metrics, QA methods, automated testing, and the
design and implementation of test cases. This course introduces students to continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines and
tools, performance testing, and the tools required for assessing software performance. Students will also learn about deployment strategies, rollback
procedures, disaster recovery plans, and monitoring and logging practices, each crucial for the software's operational integrity in production
environments.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 299
D782 - Network Architecture and Cloud Computing - In this course, students are equipped to understand, analyze, and implement cloud computing
solutions tailored to diverse business needs. The curriculum offers an in-depth look at state-of-the-art cloud technologies, the underlying business
trends fueling cloud adoption, and the foundational systems of modern data center computing. Participants will learn to identify and apply various cloud
systems to specific business cases, understand the interplay between network systems to form cloud computing environments, and utilize cloud
computing models to address infrastructure challenges. A focus on network security enables learners to assess and enhance network security
systems, covering cybersecurity principles, perimeter security, authentication, and the creation of secure networks. The course also delves into
scalable distributed systems and programming frameworks that facilitate edge computing, illustrating how cloud-based solutions can resolve real-world
business problems.
D783 - DevOps Foundations - The DevOps Foundations course will provide students with a comprehensive introduction to the core principles and
practices of DevOps, focusing on infrastructure, configuration, software engineering/operations, and the cultural shifts necessary for successful
implementation. Students will understand the history, principles, and business benefits of DevOps, along with practical skills in utilizing basic
toolchains and implementing automation and continuous processes throughout the DevOps lifecycle.
D784 - Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery - In this course, students will learn advanced DevOps practices essential for modern software
development environments. Students will master container orchestration techniques to enhance application scalability, resilience, and high availability.
They will learn to configure build servers using automated scripts, integrating robust integration testing and quality checks seamlessly into the
development pipeline. Students will develop comprehensive release management plans designed to ensure smooth and reliable software releases
with minimal downtime. They will explore the implementation of automated deployment pipelines, enabling continuous delivery and facilitating rapid,
incremental releases of software updates. Students will gain insights into analyzing performance indicators to optimize software development and
delivery processes continuously.
D785 - DevOps Security - In the DevOps Security course, students will explore tools to continuously monitor for security risks. By utilizing industry best
practices, learners fortify code repositories through robust access control, encryption, monitoring, and vulnerability management strategies. Students
will learn about secure access control mechanisms vital for safeguarding build and deployment environments against unauthorized access, data
breaches, and malicious activities. Students will analyze advanced techniques to enhance monitoring and reporting processes, empowering effective
risk management and informed decision-making. They will gain the techniques needed to quickly identify and resolve incidents, ensuring uninterrupted
service and minimizing business impact.
D786 - Microservices Design and Architecture - In this course, students will demonstrate their knowledge of microservice design and architecture.
Students will analyze a business’s needs to find what best matches their software architecture needs. Additionally, students will follow key design
principles to create a microservice while explaining why the design pattern is the most efficient for a project. Upon completion of the course, students
will create a deployment strategy for efficiency and effectiveness.
D787 - Scalability and Performance Optimization - This course prepares students to learn how to analyze real-world systems to make informed
decisions to improve overall design, performance, and reliability. Students will create tests that validate both scalability and reliability as well as apply
theoretical to real-world design, performance, and reliability systems.
D788 - Domain Driven Design - This course covers key concepts of Domain Driven Design, including bounded context, context mapping, subdomains,
entities, value objects, aggregates, aggregate roots, domain events, and their relation to other design patterns. Students will learn practical
implementation strategies, collaboration with domain experts, model refinement, documentation, critiques, and case studies.
D789 - Applied Machine Learning for Business Solutions - This course is designed to familiarize students with machine learning through the lens of a
software engineer. Students will explore the challenges and opportunities of applying machine learning to solve problems and create strategic
objectives. Students will explore various industries and learn how to apply machine learning to address business needs. While in this course,
students will demonstrate how to effectively communicate their recommendations to a range of stakeholders.
D790 - Human Centered AI - This course provides students with the opportunity to learn about how AI systems are designed to align with human
behavior and values. Students will characterize human centered design as it relates to AI, while analyzing the ethical implications of AI solutions on
both individuals and society. Students gain insights into the impact of AI on humans and human values. Finally, students will understand and explain
how to incorporate mechanisms for human oversight and control in AI systems. This learning will focus on the deep analysis of software engineering
as it relates to complex understanding of human/AI interactions.
D791 - Integrating AI with Modern Software Applications - Integrating AI with Modern Software Applications prepares students to analyze and explain
various technical and analytical components of machine learning models. Students will explore the design of system architectures to scale, while
looking at potential risks and mitigation strategies for integrating AI into existing software applications. The content in this course will give the student
the ability to understand how to describe data used by AI systems, its sources, and characteristics, as well as instructing on methods for deployment
and monitoring.
D793 - Formal Languages Overview - Formal Languages Overview introduces students to programming language design and theory, focusing on
formal semantics and type systems. It covers imperative, functional, and parallel languages, emphasizing techniques for proving language properties
and verifying program specifications. Students will differentiate between functional and procedural languages, and explore compiled, interpreted,
query, and assembly languages. The course also examines the structure and features of programming languages, including object-oriented
programming principles. Learners will understand program correctness, testing, and verification, addressing type correctness. This course prepares
students to assess programming languages against business requirements, enhancing software reliability and efficiency. Aimed at those interested in
the theoretical underpinnings of programming languages, it equips students with knowledge to make informed decisions in software development and
application.
D794 - Computer Architecture and Systems - Computer Architecture and Systems offers a comprehensive examination of the design and development
of computer systems. Students will explore the evolution of computer architecture, understanding how computers have advanced and changed over
time. The course covers different layouts and designs used in both hardware and software solutions, helping students to grasp the complex structures
of computer systems. Students will learn how to develop detailed plans for implementing computing solutions that work across various platforms. The
course likewise covers how to integrate various devices to ensure they operate and communicate smoothly with each other.
D795 - Applied Algorithms and Reasoning - This course builds on foundational knowledge of algorithm design and optimization for efficient resource
utilization. It emphasizes benchmarking algorithms, reasoning, and applying Big O notation for performance evaluation. This course will cover how to
design, analyze, and implement algorithms to solve complex computational problems, focusing on optimizing performance and enhancing system
efficiency. The practical applications in this course involve testing data structures, developing algorithmic solutions, and optimizing algorithm
performance through critical analysis and implementation. By integrating computational thinking and engineering principles, this course will present the
skills students need to develop and optimize algorithms for real-world software, using benchmarking and profiling tools to measure and enhance
performance.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 300
D796 - Unix and Linux - Unix and Linux offers a comprehensive introduction to these operating systems, focusing on essential skills used in system
administration and development roles. This course equips students with the ability to employ the most common commands, navigate the Unix/Linux
shell, manage files and directories, configure the shell environment, and create shell scripts to automate routine tasks. This hands-on approach
prepares students to competently manage and maintain Unix and Linux systems in real-world applications. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D797 - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Foundations - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Foundations explores foundational
concepts and practical applications of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML). It provides students with an understanding of the historical
context and evolution of AI and the subsequent growth phases of AI technologies. This course will investigate the computational theories and logical
frameworks that have shaped the AI landscape, examining how advancements in hardware have enabled the leap from basic ML to the complexities of
deep learning. The course emphasizes the practicalities of AI and ML and gives insights into the critical role of data integrity and the techniques for
data wrangling to feed into ML algorithms effectively. In addition to the technical skills, the course incorporates the societal implications of AI and ML,
discussing current ethical considerations. This course aims to create a nuanced understanding of AI and ML, preparing students to thoughtfully
consider the broader impacts of these technologies. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D798 - Emerging Computing Systems - Emerging Computing Systems offers learners an exploration into the cutting-edge technologies and trends
driving the future of computing, with a particular focus on internet computing systems. This course explores advanced computing topics, providing an
in-depth analysis and evaluation of state-of-the-art technologies across nine broad categories: hardware architectures and operating systems,
networking and distributed systems, cloud and data centers, system design and integration, security, performance and scalability, system integration,
energy efficiency, and emerging technologies. The course will critically examine emerging technologies, their design principles, and their system
optimizations and provide insights to the design and optimization of modern computing systems. This course provides a blend of conceptual learning
and practical application, allowing students to develop the expertise needed to lead in the evolving computing landscape. Computer Architecture and
Systems is a prerequisite for this course.
D799 - Mobile and Ubiquitous Design - Mobile and Ubiquitous Design blends in-depth technical knowledge of computing systems like sensors,
processors, embedded systems design, communication protocols, and connectivity technologies with user-centered design principles for creating
functional and engaging mobile applications. The course will demonstrate how to apply design thinking and UX methods such as user personas,
usability testing, and addressing real-world challenges to develop scalable, secure, and ethical solutions that optimize the interplay between various
devices. By emphasizing privacy considerations and the ability to adapt across different user environments, this course prepares students to become
proficient in analyzing user needs and designing synchronized multi-device systems through mobile apps that effectively meet those requirements.
D800 - Human-Computer Interaction - Human-Computer Interaction is a course that covers the principles of human-computer interaction (HCI),
incorporating insights from psychology, design, and engineering to understand user interactions. This course prepares students to design and evaluate
user-centered systems using tools like wireframing and eye tracking. The course addresses ethical implications, focusing on privacy, consent, and
accessibility. Additionally, the course helps students develop basic data analysis skills for interpreting user testing results and complete the CITI
Institutional Review Board (IRB) Protocol Review for working with human subjects. The main goal of the course is to teach students how to create
intuitive, accessible, and engaging interactive systems informed by user testing.
D801 - Machine Learning for Computer Scientists - Machine Learning for Computer Scientists provides a comprehensive introduction to foundational
machine learning algorithms and their applications, aligned with the AWS Certified Machine Learning—Specialty (MLS-C01). The course covers
supervised learning techniques such as linear regression, logistic regression, decision trees, and support vector machines, as well as unsupervised
learning methods like clustering and dimensionality reduction. Essential concepts in model evaluation, selection, and optimization are also covered,
including cross validation, hyperparameter tuning, and ensemble methods. Designed specifically for computer scientists, this course sets the
groundwork for advanced studies in deep learning and natural language processing. This course teaches students machine learning (ML) techniques
of supervised and unsupervised ML methods using Python programming language.
D802 - Deep Learning - Deep Learning delves into the fundamental principles, underlying mathematics, and implementation details of deep learning.
The curriculum is designed to provide a robust understanding of the core concepts and methodologies essential for optimizing highly parameterized
models. Key topics include gradient descent, backpropagation, and the broader framework of computation graphs. The course explores the essential
modules that constitute deep learning models, such as linear, convolution, and pooling layers, along with various activation functions. The course also
covers common neural network architectures, including convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and recurrent neural networks (RNNs), equipping
students with the skills needed to design, implement, and optimize advanced deep learning systems. Through hands-on projects and practical
applications, the course prepares students to gain the expertise to tackle real-world challenges using deep learning techniques.
D803 - Natural Language Processing - Natural Language Processing offers an in-depth exploration of modern data-driven techniques for natural
language processing (NLP). The course progresses from basic text preprocessing methods to advanced machine-learning (ML) models specifically
tailored for NLP tasks. Topics include sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, machine translation, and the use of advanced neural network
architectures such as recurrent neural networks (RNNs), long short-term memory (LSTM), and transformers. Industry-standard tools and frameworks
are covered for practical applications and project-based learning. For successful completion of this course, learners should take AI and ML
Foundations, Machine Learning for Computer Scientists, and Deep Learning prior to this course.
D804 - Advanced AI for Computer Scientists - Advanced AI for Computer Scientists synthesizes principles of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine
learning (ML) to equip students with the skills needed to design sophisticated AI systems that address real-world problems. The course explores
cutting-edge techniques such as meta-learning, zero-shot and few-shot learning, and advanced ensemble methods. The course also covers state-of-
the-art deep-learning architectures, reinforcement-learning strategies, and probabilistic-reasoning models. Additionally, the course prepares students
to critically evaluate AI systems for performance, efficiency, sustainability, and ethical considerations, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of
advanced AI applications.
D805 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy is a cutting-edge course designed for candidates seeking to enhance their
literacy skills within specific secondary academic disciplines. The course examines the distinct literacy needs of various secondary content areas,
focusing on how reading, writing, speaking, and listening function differently in each discipline. Candidates will explore specialized language structures
and text features relevant to each field and develop strategies to help students master these complexities. The curriculum integrates the science of
reading to support critical engagement with and production of disciplinary texts, while also incorporating technology and digital literacy to aid students
in accessing and interpreting discipline-specific information. The course combines research-based evidence with practical, structured literacy activities
to equip educators with the skills necessary to improve student achievement and understanding across all subjects. This course is a required
component in SCED programs and will be assessed through a performance assessment task for both undergraduate and graduate versions.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 301
D806 - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy - Secondary Disciplinary Literacy is a cutting-edge course designed for candidates seeking to enhance their
literacy skills within specific secondary academic disciplines. The course examines the distinct literacy needs of various secondary content areas,
focusing on how reading, writing, speaking, and listening function differently in each discipline. Candidates will explore specialized language structures
and text features relevant to each field and develop strategies to help students master these complexities. The curriculum integrates the science of
reading to support critical engagement with and production of disciplinary texts, while also incorporating technology and digital literacy to aid students
in accessing and interpreting discipline-specific information. The course combines research-based evidence with practical, structured literacy activities
to equip educators with the skills necessary to improve student achievement and understanding across all subjects. This course is a required
component in SCED programs and will be assessed through a performance assessment task for both undergraduate and graduate versions.
D807 - General Secondary Methods - General Secondary Methods prepares students for secondary teaching by equipping them with essential
instructional skills and knowledge tailored to adolescent learners. Students will explore how adolescent development influences learning, how
secondary school settings influence instructional choices, and how to implement effective teaching strategies in these environments. Through a blend
of theory and practical application, students will create and assess lesson plans, focusing on differentiated instruction, formative and summative
assessments, and the integration of technology, including AI tools, to promote affective learning in diverse secondary education settings.
D808 - General Secondary Methods - General Secondary Methods prepares students for secondary teaching by equipping them with essential
instructional skills and knowledge tailored to adolescent learners. Students will explore how adolescent development influences learning, how
secondary school settings influence instructional choices, and how to implement effective teaching strategies in these environments. Through a blend
of theory and practical application, students will create and assess lesson plans, focusing on differentiated instruction, formative and summative
assessments, and the integration of technology, including AI tools, to promote affective learning in diverse secondary education settings.
D835 - Social Studies Methods I - Social Studies Methods I prepares teacher candidates to effectively teach social studies in secondary education
settings, focusing on grades 7–9, while aligning with the Praxis 5081 Social Studies Content Knowledge test. The course emphasizes developing
comprehensive, standards-aligned lesson plans and employing innovative teaching strategies. Combining theory with practice, the course emphasizes
critical thinking, historical inquiry, and civic competence through differentiated instruction with diverse learners, formative and summative assessments,
and technology integration. Candidates will engage in reflective practices while exploring integrated approaches to teaching and learning, focusing on
the central role of inquiry. The course integrates pedagogy with content knowledge, including the NCSS (National Council for the Social Studies)
themes and C3 (College, Career, and Civic Life) Framework dimensions, and applies universal design principles and authentic learning experiences.
Methods include teaching via big ideas, civic responsibilities, and evidence-based strategies to aid students in constructing meaning through social
studies lenses. Candidates will develop dispositions of social studies educators, analyze resources, and communicate effectively with stakeholders
about sensitive topics.
D836 - Social Studies Methods II - Social Studies Methods II prepares educators to employ effective teaching strategies for social studies in grades 10–
12, including psychology, economics, US history II, world history II, and government/political science. Emphasizing inquiry-based learning and
integrated approaches, the course addresses pedagogical considerations and content alignment specific to secondary education. Methods include
teaching through big ideas, civic discourse, inquiry, and problem-solving. Candidates apply these strategies to design instruction that fosters students'
understanding across social studies disciplines. The course integrates inquiry-based learning with historical analysis, examining global connections
and governance systems.
D837 - Secondary Social Studies Curriculum - Secondary Social Studies Curriculum explores the key concepts of U.S. history, world history,
economics, government, geography, and social sciences. Designed for aspiring social studies educators, this course will refresh and deepen
candidates’ understanding of the material they will teach in secondary classrooms and prepare them for the Praxis Social Studies (5081) exam.
Candidates in this course will learn to compare historical concepts and resources as they develop the best materials for their classrooms.
D838 - Teaching Adolescent Literature in Secondary Schools - Teaching Adolescent Literature in Secondary Schools, designed for current and
aspiring secondary school teachers, delves into the intricacies of teaching adolescent literature and integrates secondary learners, methods, and
settings with discipline-specific considerations for teaching literature. The course equips educators with the skills to implement English Language Arts
instruction that integrates a deep understanding of adolescent learners and literacy development and promote literacy for adolescent students.
Learners will plan standards-based literature instruction informed by evidence-based approaches to teach their students how to perform critical
analysis of texts across genres. These strategies will foster inclusive learning environments and plan equitable and inclusive instruction that aligns to
standards and facilitate the needs of all learners. Additionally, the course teaches the planning of research-based assessments to monitor students'
reading skills and progress toward learning outcomes. Teachers will also engage in reflective practices to enhance their instructional strategies and
improve student learning outcomes in English literature.
D839 - Teaching Writing in Secondary Schools - Teaching Writing in Secondary Schools is the second of three English discipline methods courses in
the standard path. This course focuses on developing writing skills in adolescent learners and includes consideration of writing across a range of real-
world contexts and genres, the writing process, and assessment of writing skills. Connections to the science of learning and the science of reading are
spiraled throughout the content. Considerations of technology integration and different media modalities are included. This course will be assessed via
one integrated PA task for the undergraduate version, with one additional PA task for the graduate version. The assessment will require candidates to
demonstrate instructional skills. This methods course will count towards 7 hours of the 51 total clinical hours that learners will gain from their SCED
methods courses.
D840 - Teaching English Language Arts in Secondary Schools - Teaching English Language Arts in Secondary Schools is designed to equip
candidates with the skills and strategies necessary to effectively teach English Language Arts (ELA) to middle and high school students. The course
begins with a focus on designing learning experiences that promote effective oral communication, ensuring students can express themselves clearly
and confidently. It then delves into applying knowledge of language, guiding candidates in teaching the intricacies of language use, reading
comprehension, and vocabulary acquisition. Next, the course emphasizes the implementation of instruction that assesses students' speaking and
listening skills through various formative assessments, fostering active engagement and identifying areas for reteaching. Finally, candidates will create
a comprehensive action plan for ELA instruction, reflecting on their instructional strategies and identifying opportunities for continuous improvement.
Throughout the course, candidates will learn to balance content rigor, scaffold learning, and employ evidence-based strategies to support diverse
learners in developing critical language skills.
D841 - Secondary English Language Arts Curriculum - Secondary English Language Arts Curriculum explores the integration of literary analysis,
language development, and curriculum design to prepare candidates for teaching in secondary ELA classrooms and for the Praxis 5039 English
Language Arts exam. This course guides candidates through a comprehensive study of global literature, rhetorical techniques, language strategies,
and assessment methodologies, thereby enabling them to effectively align their teaching practices with state content standards and student needs.
Emphasizing critical evaluation and application, the course equips educators with the tools to research, select, and adapt ELA curricular resources to
diverse educational settings. There are no prerequisites for this course.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 302
D842 - Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging Trends and Society - D842 Technology and Ethics: A Look at Emerging Trends and Society
explores the intersection of ethical thinking and technological innovations. A foundational introduction to ethical frameworks is applied to emerging
trends in technology including artificial intelligence, social media, and other forms of digital media. This course examines the impact of technology on
our understanding of self as well as the individual’s role in interacting with others in a globalized society. Through careful analysis and application,
students gain the ability to recognize ethical actions within the context of current and newly evolving technological landscapes. Through the application
of ethical frameworks, students gain the ability to evaluate actions taken within the context of current and newly evolving technological landscapes.
This course has no prerequisites.
D843 - General Chemistry I - General Chemistry I introduces foundational principles of chemistry, starting at the atomic level and expanding to the
behavior of elements within the periodic table. This course explores how atoms bond to form molecules and proceeds into chemical reactions, acids
and bases, solutions, and nuclear reactions. Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of stability and change in chemical processes. This
course highlights the practical aspects of chemistry, providing insights into how chemical principles underpin everyday phenomena and contribute to
our understanding of environmental processes.
D844 - General Chemistry I Lab - General Chemistry I Lab focuses on developing foundational skills in scientific investigation in chemistry. It
emphasizes the application of the scientific method to answer chemistry questions through hypothesis-driven experimentation. Students will learn to
design, execute, and analyze chemistry experiments, ensuring adherence to rigorous scientific protocols and ethical standards. The course also
covers essential aspects of scientific communication, including writing clear and structured scientific reports and effectively presenting experimental
findings. Throughout the course, students will cultivate critical thinking skills necessary for interpreting data and drawing conclusions.
D845 - General Physics I - This General Physics course covers fundamental concepts, including Newton’s Laws, forces, motion, energy, waves,
electricity, and magnetism, with real-world applications and insights into relativity and quantum theory. Learners will study measurement, forces and
motion, Newton’s Laws, centrifugal and centripetal forces, friction, gravity, momentum, collisions, vectors, wave motion, energy, thermodynamics, and
electromagnetic waves. Skills developed include scientific literacy, physical science application, systems thinking, and scientific reasoning.
D846 - General Physics I Lab - In this lab that follows the General Physics course, learners will develop the ability to conduct scientific investigations to
answer questions using experimentation in the field of physics. The section emphasizes the application of the scientific method to solve problems,
analyze data from experiments, and draw conclusions. Students will also learn to accurately summarize their findings and perform tasks with attention
to detail. Throughout the lessons, students will engage in activities designed to enhance their scientific reasoning and written communication skills,
ensuring they can effectively explain their results. They will practice identifying interconnections within systems. The course provides a foundational
understanding of experimental techniques and data analysis, preparing learners to conduct independent investigations and apply their knowledge in
real-world contexts.
D847 - General Earth Science I - This comprehensive survey course provides a foundational understanding of Earth's position in the universe and its
dynamic systems. Students will explore Earth's placement within the solar system, including the effects of its orbit, origin, and celestial interactions on
tides and seasons. The course delves into Earth's subsystems—geosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and atmosphere—focusing on their interactions
and impacts on weather, climate, and geological processes like weathering, erosion, and soil formation. Additionally, the course examines natural
phenomena such as earthquakes and volcanoes, and the significant influence of human activities on Earth's systems, addressing topics such as
resource management, land use, pollution, and sustainability. Through interactive simulations, multimedia resources, and real-life applications,
students will engage in interdisciplinary thinking and develop a deep appreciation for the scientific methods, theories, and laws that underpin Earth
science.
D848 - General Earth Science I Lab - The Earth Science I Lab course equips students with skills to conduct scientific investigations in Earth science.
Students will apply the scientific method, design controlled experiments, and follow lab safety protocols. They will gain experience with data collection
methods, including field observations, experiments, and virtual simulations of phenomena like erosion. The course emphasizes analyzing weather,
climate, and seismic data using basic techniques. It also covers essential aspects of identifying and analyzing the components of a lab report by
answering questions related to a simulated lab report. Students will learn to interpret data, draw conclusions, and communicate findings effectively,
preparing them for advanced Earth science studies and research.
D849 - General Biology I - This course is a foundational introduction to the biological sciences. The overarching theories of life from biological research
are explored as well as the fundamental concepts and principles of the study of living organisms and their interaction with the environment. Key
concepts include how living organisms use and produce energy; how life grows, develops, and reproduces; how life responds to the environment to
maintain internal stability; and how life evolves and adapts to the environment.
D850 - General Biology I Lab - This course focuses on developing foundational skills in scientific investigation within the field of biology. It emphasizes
the application of the scientific method to answer biological questions through hypothesis-driven experimentation. Students will learn to design,
execute, and analyze biological experiments, ensuring adherence to rigorous scientific protocols and ethical standards. The course also covers
essential aspects of identifying and analyzing the components of a lab report by answering questions related to a simulated lab report. Throughout the
course, students will cultivate critical thinking skills necessary for interpreting data, drawing conclusions, and proposing further research directions in
biology.
D852 - Astronomy - Astronomy explores the fundamental principles of the universe, focusing on the lifecycle of stars, the structure of our solar system,
and the dynamics of the Sun-Earth-Moon system. In this course, students learn about the analysis of starlight spectra and brightness to determine the
composition, movement, and distance of stars. Kepler’s laws are examined to explain the motions of orbiting celestial bodies and the factors that
influence their paths. Students will also learn how the cyclical changes in Earth’s orbit and axial orientation affect climate over geological time scales.
Additionally, students will build on their geological knowledge by studying extraterrestrial objects, such as lunar rocks and meteorites, to gain insights
into Earth's formation and history.
D853 - Meteorology - Meteorology provides an in-depth exploration of Earth's atmospheric and hydrospheric systems, examining the complex
interactions that govern climate and weather patterns. Students will investigate the fundamental concepts of atmospheric circulation, weather systems,
and climate dynamics, linking these to the hydrosphere's critical role. The course progresses to a detailed analysis of the Earth's evolving climate,
focusing on both natural and anthropogenic factors that have shaped the current state of the atmosphere and hydrosphere. By integrating scientific
principles with practical applications, students will gain a comprehensive understanding of how climate systems operate and evolve, preparing them to
assess and address future environmental challenges.
D854 - Environmental Science - This course explores the essential concepts and processes related to Earth's natural resources, focusing on the
interactions between land, water, and air. Students will analyze how human activities impact these resources and examine the scientific, technological,
and policy-driven efforts to manage and remediate environmental issues. Through case studies and real-world examples, the course emphasizes
sustainable practices and the role of innovative solutions in addressing global challenges. By the end of the course, students will be equipped to
critically evaluate resource management strategies and contribute to environmental sustainability.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 303
D855 - Natural Hazards - Natural Hazards delves into the complex and dynamic processes that govern Earth's natural systems and the hazards they
produce. Students will explore how the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere interact to create natural events such as earthquakes,
volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, floods, and tsunamis. The course emphasizes the role of plate tectonics in generating lithospheric hazards, analyzing
how movements within the Earth's crust lead to earthquakes and volcanic activities. Additionally, students will learn about the formation of atmospheric
hazards, including how climate patterns and atmospheric circulation contribute to contribute to hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes. Students will
examine how human activities impact the frequency and intensity of natural hazards and how natural hazards influence human behavior. By the end of
the course, students will have a comprehensive understanding of the scientific principles underlying natural hazards and will be equipped to analyze
and address the challenges posed by these events in both natural and human-altered environments.
D856 - Environmental Management with Lab - Environmental Management with Lab is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking
initial licensure or endorsement in secondary science education. This course provides a comprehensive overview of the principles and practices
essential for understanding and managing the environment sustainably. This course focuses on sustainable use of energy, water, and other natural
resources, as well as pollution of air, water, and land. Through hands-on labs and real-world examples, candidates will gain practical experience in
environmental impact assessments and water and air quality monitoring. This course is assessed via a Performance Assessment.
D857 - Secondary Earth Science Curriculum - UG Secondary Earth Science Curriculum prepares students to develop and evaluate Earth Science
curricula for secondary education by examining the foundational principles of Earth's processes, materials, and their interactions within the broader
context of the hydrosphere, atmosphere, and the universe. The course delves into the relationships between the Earth, Sun, and Moon, the dynamics
of the Earth's internal and external systems, and the characteristics and life cycles of stars and planets. Learners will explore the structure and
behavior of Earth's components, as well as celestial phenomena, equipping them with the knowledge necessary to effectively teach these concepts in
secondary education settings. This course lays the groundwork for understanding and conveying the complexities of Earth and space science,
preparing learners for impactful instruction in the classroom. Through practical examples and interactive activities, students will enhance their ability to
design effective curricula that foster student engagement and understanding in Earth Science.
D858 - Secondary Earth Science Curriculum - MAT Secondary Earth Science Curriculum prepares students to develop and evaluate Earth Science
curricula for secondary education by exploring the core principles of Earth's processes, materials, and the relationships between the Earth, Sun, and
Moon, as well as the broader context of stars, planets, and the universe. Learners will delve into the hydrosphere and atmosphere, examining their
dynamics and the intricate interactions that drive Earth's systems. The course also emphasizes the evaluation and alignment of Earth Science
curriculum resources with secondary standards and individual student needs. Learners will gain the skills to critically assess and adapt instructional
materials, ensuring they meet diverse learning styles and needs in secondary Earth Science classrooms. Through practical examples and interactive
activities, this course equips learners with the knowledge and tools to effectively design, evaluate, and implement a comprehensive Earth Science
curriculum.
D859 - General Geology - General Geology offers a comprehensive exploration of Earth's dynamic systems, emphasizing the interaction of geological
processes that shape our planet. Students will engage in a rigorous study of Earth's materials, surface processes, and the forces driving tectonic
movements, with an emphasis on both local and global geological phenomena. Through interactive activities, including simulations, and mapping tools,
learners will connect historical geological evidence to the evolution of the Earth and its life forms. The course is designed for educators aiming to
enhance their pedagogical approaches to teaching geology. No prior geological knowledge is required, making this course accessible and essential for
anyone interested in understanding the Earth's past, present, and future.
D860 - General Physics II with Lab - General Physics II with Lab builds on the foundational concepts covered in General Physics I, guiding students
through introductory topics in heat and thermodynamics, geometric optics, and the interactions and transformations of energy within atomic and
subatomic systems. Students will explore the distinction between heat and temperature, methods of heat transfer, specific heat capacity, the laws of
thermodynamics, kinetic theory of gases, and the principles of heat engines and efficiency. The course delves into electromagnetic waves, Snell’s law,
total internal reflection, thin film interference, ray tracing for lenses and mirrors, dispersion, polarization, diffraction, and the functioning of optical
instruments. Finally, students will analyze Interaction and Transformations of Energy, explore atomic models and structures, atomic spectral absorption
and emission, radioactivity and radioactive decay, nuclear processes like fusion and fission, and mass-energy relationships. Throughout the course,
students will develop scientific literacy and the ability to apply scientific principles, enhancing their understanding of physical science concepts and
their applications.
D861 - Electricity and Magnetism - Electricity and Magnetism is a comprehensive exploration of the fundamental principles of electricity and
magnetism. This course is designed to help all students be successful in learning the core concepts of electricity and magnetism, and how they can be
applied to real world technologies like electronics, motors, and infrastructure. Through a combination of theoretical instruction and experiments,
students will build a robust foundation in electricity and magnetism, preparing them for a career as a physics teacher. This course emphasizes critical
thinking, problem-solving, and the practical application of scientific principles, equipping students with the knowledge and skills necessary for success
in the classroom.
D862 - Astrophysics with Lab - Explore the vast and fascinating realm of astrophysics with a hands-on approach to learning about celestial objects, the
formation of the universe, and the theories that explain their behavior. Through interactive virtual labs and engaging multimedia resources, you will
delve into the properties of stars, planets, galaxies, black holes, and the fundamental forces that govern their motion. Analyze cutting-edge theories of
general relativity, dark matter, and dark energy while developing critical analytical skills to interpret astronomical data. This course offers a
comprehensive understanding of the universe and prepares you to apply astrophysical concepts in real-world contexts.
D863 - Waves, Acoustics, and Sound - Waves, Acoustics, and Sound provides a comprehensive exploration of fundamental wave properties and their
interactions with various media. Designed for learners preparing for roles in science education, it delves into the core concepts of wave behavior,
including wave characteristics, factors affecting wave propagation, and the effects of interference. Through detailed lessons on wave properties,
interactions, and changes in wave behavior, learners will gain the skills needed to analyze and predict wave phenomena. The course emphasizes
practical applications, employing interactive simulations and real-world examples to enhance understanding and prepare learners for effective teaching
and application of wave concepts in educational settings.
D864 - Secondary Physics Curriculum - Secondary Physics Curriculum. This course offers a comprehensive review for high school physics teachers
preparing for the Praxis exam. Explore major scientific discoveries, key engineering innovations, and their societal impacts. Understand ethical issues
in scientific research and the principles of effective science communication. Delve into different forms of energy, laws of thermodynamics, and the role
of energy and matter in the universe. Study Coulomb's Law, electric circuits, and electromagnetism. Learn how to integrate wave properties, sound
waves, and the electromagnetic spectrum into your teaching practice. As this course is focused on Praxis prep, content is conceptual and algebra-
based.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 304
D865 - Secondary Physics Curriculum - MAT Secondary Physics Curriculum This course offers a comprehensive review for high school physics
teachers preparing for the Praxis exam. Explore major scientific discoveries, key engineering innovations, and their societal impacts. Understand
ethical issues in scientific research and the principles of effective science communication. Delve into different forms of energy, laws of
thermodynamics, and the role of energy and matter in the universe. Study Coulomb's Law, electric circuits, and electromagnetism. Learn how to
integrate wave properties, sound waves, and the electromagnetic spectrum into your teaching practice. As this course is focused on Praxis prep,
content is conceptual and algebra-based.
D866 - General Chemistry II with Lab - Chemistry II with Lab course is designed to equip students with a comprehensive understanding of advanced
chemical principles and their real-world applications. Covering a wide range of topics from energy transfer during physical and chemical processes to
the recognition and naming of compounds, the course emphasizes critical thinking and practical skills. Students will delve into quantitative
relationships in chemical reactions, gaining proficiency in stoichiometry, solution concentration, and reaction predictions. Through scientific inquiry,
students will learn to design experiments, collect and analyze data, and apply their knowledge to solve environmental and industrial problems. The
course also includes extensive practice in communicating scientific findings effectively, both in written reports and oral presentations. With a blend of
theoretical knowledge and hands-on laboratory experience, this course prepares students for success in advanced studies and professional
applications of chemistry.
D867 - Organic Chemistry - This Organic Chemistry course prepares teacher candidates to understand and apply foundational concepts in carbon-
based chemistry. You will learn to describe molecular structures using proper nomenclature, analyze chemical processes, and apply instrumental
methods of analysis to determine molecular structures. The course emphasizes practical skills, including the use of modeling kits and spectroscopic
techniques to synthesize and analyze organic compounds. By the end of this course, you will be equipped to teach these concepts effectively to your
students.
D868 - Analytical Chemistry with Lab - In "Analytical Chemistry with Lab," students will deepen their understanding of chemistry through the scientific
method, data analysis, and data visualization. This course aligns with Utah Competency Areas C2.1.A and C2.1.B, focusing on questioning, methods,
argumentation, models, data, and analysis. Students will gain hands-on experience with classical, optical, chromatographic, mass spectrometric, and
electrochemical techniques. Prerequisites include a solid foundation in mathematics and prior chemistry courses. Students will critically evaluate
experiments, learning to design effective methods and present their data clearly. This course prepares students to gather, process, and communicate
chemical data, emphasizing its application in teaching and real-world scenarios. This course helps prepare students in chemistry and related fields.
D869 - Biochemistry I - This course delves into the critical role of macromolecules and chemical reactions in living organisms, with a focus on
molecular interactions, metabolic pathways, and the regulatory mechanisms that underpin biological processes. The student will start by analyzing
macromolecules in organisms and study information on the structure, function, and interactions of key biological macromolecules including
carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids, emphasizing their roles in cellular functions and intercellular interactions. The course then builds to
analyzing macromolecules in organisms by building on this foundation, examining the interactions between these macromolecules and the forces
driving these interactions, such as intermolecular forces and solubility principles. Finally, the student will explore chemical reactions in organisms
through enzyme function and inhibition, metabolic pathways, like glycolysis and the citric acid cycle, and the electron transport chain, as well as the
regulation of these pathways and the impact of metabolic disorders. Throughout the course, students will engage in activities and analyses that
deepen their understanding of these biochemical processes and their relevance to the functioning of living organisms.
D870 - Physical Chemistry I - Physical Chemistry I provides an exploration of the intersection of physics and chemistry to understand the fundamental
principles that govern chemical reactions and matter. This course covers key topics such as atomic and molecular structure, thermodynamics, and
kinetics, emphasizing real-world applications and practical problem-solving. Through a blend of virtual labs and interactive activities, learners will
develop a deep understanding of energy changes, reaction mechanisms, and the behavior of matter in various states. This course emphasizes
engagement with complex concepts, enhancement of analytical skills, and application of theoretical knowledge to practical scenarios.
D871 - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum synthesizes the core content of the Secondary Chemistry Program,
preparing candidates to apply education theory and teaching approaches to the chemistry content areas. This course aligns with the areas covered by
the Chemistry Praxis exam, ensuring candidates demonstrate both a deep understanding of the subject matter and the ability to effectively deliver
content in a secondary classroom setting. Topics include atomic structure, chemical bonding, energy relationships, chemical reactions, solutions, and
the role of science and engineering in society. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D872 - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum - Secondary Chemistry Curriculum synthesizes the core content of the Secondary Chemistry Program,
preparing candidates to apply education theory and teaching approaches to the chemistry content areas. This course aligns with the areas covered by
the Chemistry Praxis exam, ensuring candidates demonstrate both a deep understanding of the subject matter and the ability to effectively deliver
content in a secondary classroom setting. Through evidence-based methods of learning science, candidates will evaluate learning experiences and
resources that effectively convey chemistry concepts to secondary students. Topics include atomic structure, chemical bonding, energy relationships,
chemical reactions, solutions, and the role of science and engineering in society. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D873 - Laboratory Safety - The course "Laboratory Safety" aims at equipping learners with essential safety knowledge and skills for various learning
environments, including laboratories, classrooms, and field settings. Learners in this course will deeply understand safety protocols, legal
responsibilities, and effective teaching strategies for safety in educational settings.
D874 - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering focuses on developing a comprehensive
understanding of science and engineering pedagogical knowledge. This course is the first of three science teaching methods courses and provides a
robust foundation in integrating disciplinary core ideas, crosscutting concepts, and science and engineering practices in phenomena-based curriculum
and instruction. Candidates will delve into planning learning experiences, designing instructional strategies, and utilizing phenomena-based teaching to
promote engagement and understanding. Reflective practices, such as evaluating observed teaching, analyzing personal teaching methods, and
reviewing course content, are emphasized to foster continuous improvement. The course will be assessed via an integrated performance assessment
task, requiring candidates to demonstrate their instructional skills.
D875 - Secondary Science Teaching Methods - This course focuses on equipping secondary science educators with the essential knowledge and
skills to effectively teach science through a three-dimensional approach, integrating science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and
disciplinary core ideas. Participants will explore general considerations for science instruction, including inquiry-based learning, hands-on activities,
and assessment strategies. By building on foundational knowledge in Three-Dimensional Science and Engineering, educators will enhance their ability
to engage students in meaningful and authentic scientific learning experiences. This methods course will count towards 7 hours of the 51 total clinical
hours that learners will gain from their SCED methods courses.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 305
D876 - Cell Biology - Cell Biology examines the fundamental principles and techniques that underpin the structure, function, and growth of cells,
encompassing cellular components, the cell cycle, and genetic information flow. The course emphasizes the importance of cellular processes and
techniques such as microscopy, cell culture, genetic engineering, and bioinformatics, highlighting their relevance in understanding cellular biology's
role in health and disease. This course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of how cells maintain homeostasis,
metabolize, and perform specialized functions.
D877 - General Biology II - This General Biology II course is designed to prepare learners for teaching biology at the high school level by providing an
in-depth understanding of cellular structures, the processes of mitosis and meiosis, and the mechanisms of communication and information processing
within organisms. Students will explore the complexities of cell differentiation, the roles of different brain regions, and how organisms respond to
environmental stimuli through interactive activities and simulations. The course emphasizes the integration of foundational concepts with real-world
applications, helping future educators build a comprehensive knowledge base. By the end of the course, students will be well-equipped to teach key
biological processes and understand their significance in the growth, development, and survival of living organisms.
D878 - General Ecology - General Ecology offers an in-depth exploration of how ecosystems function and interact. Candidates will study both biotic
and abiotic factors that play crucial roles in sustaining ecological balance. Key topics include the flow of energy through food chains and webs, nutrient
cycling, and the dynamics of populations—covering growth models, carrying capacity, and factors influencing population size and structure. The course
examines species interactions such as competition, predation, and symbiosis, and explores community structure and biodiversity. Candidates will learn
about primary and secondary succession and how these processes shape ecosystems over time. Additionally, the course addresses conservation
principles and practices, with a focus on analyzing human impacts on ecosystems and exploring strategies for sustainability. Through this course,
candidates will gain a comprehensive understanding of the intricate web of life that sustains our planet.
D879 - Genetics - Genetics is an introductory course for undergraduate students seeking licensure or endorsement in secondary or middle grade
science education. This course addresses the basic principles of heredity and the function of molecular genetics. Topics include Mendelian and non-
Mendelian inheritance, gene regulation, and variation at the individual level. The course examines modern technologies and applications of genetics.
D880 - Evolutionary Biology - Evolutionary Biology provides a comprehensive exploration of key concepts and mechanisms of evolution. Students will
learn about the evidence supporting evolution, including fossils and molecular data, the mechanisms driving evolutionary change like natural selection
and genetic drift, and the historical and contemporary factors influencing the diversity of life. The course also addresses the importance of biodiversity
conservation and equips educators with strategies to effectively teach evolutionary concepts in the classroom, emphasizing evidence-based
applications and critical thinking.
D881 - Advanced Zoology and Botany with Lab - Advanced Zoology & Botany with Lab is an in-depth exploration of advanced topics in zoology and
botany, including the study of animal and plant physiology, ecology, evolution, and taxonomy. This course will engage students in virtual, hands-on
laboratory exercises to develop practical skills in virtual or hands-on lab activities, data collection, and analysis. This course builds on concepts from
General Biology I and II, and Evolutionary Biology and contains instructional teaching strategies for classroom delivery.
D882 - Secondary Biology Curriculum - The Secondary Biology course offers a comprehensive understanding of biological principles and processes,
starting from the fundamental cellular structures and functions to the complexities of ecosystem dynamics. Students will delve into key topics such as
genetics, evolution, and ecological interactions, gaining insights into the diversity of life and the interconnectedness of biological systems. The course
emphasizes critical thinking and problem-solving skills, enabling learners to analyze biological phenomena and apply their knowledge to real-world
challenges. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, students will engage in hands-on activities, scenarios, and case
studies to deepen their understanding. Additionally, the course highlights the impact of environmental changes on ecosystems, fostering an
appreciation for conservation and sustainability. By the end of the course, learners will be well-prepared to address various biological challenges and
pursue further studies or careers in the field of biology education.
D883 - Secondary Biology Curriculum - The Secondary Biology course offers a comprehensive understanding of biological principles and processes,
starting from the fundamental cellular structures and functions to the complexities of ecosystem dynamics. Students will delve into key topics such as
genetics, evolution, and ecological interactions, gaining insights into the diversity of life and the interconnectedness of biological systems. The course
emphasizes critical thinking and problem-solving skills, enabling learners to analyze biological phenomena and apply their knowledge to real-world
challenges. Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and practical application, students will engage in hands-on activities, scenarios, and case
studies to deepen their understanding. Additionally, the course highlights the impact of environmental changes on ecosystems, fostering an
appreciation for conservation and sustainability. By the end of the course, learners will be well-prepared to address various biological challenges and
pursue further studies or careers in the field of biology education.
D884 - Laboratory Safety - The course "Laboratory Safety" aims at equipping learners with essential safety knowledge and skills for various learning
environments, including laboratories, classrooms, and field settings. Learners in this course will deeply understand safety protocols, legal
responsibilities, and effective teaching strategies for safety in educational settings.
D885 - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering - Three Dimensional Science and Engineering focuses on developing a comprehensive
understanding of science and engineering pedagogical knowledge. This course is the first of three science teaching methods courses and provides a
robust foundation in integrating disciplinary core ideas, crosscutting concepts, and science and engineering practices in phenomena-based curriculum
and instruction. Candidates will delve into planning learning experiences, designing instructional strategies, and utilizing phenomena-based teaching to
promote engagement and understanding. Reflective practices, such as evaluating observed teaching, analyzing personal teaching methods, and
reviewing course content, are emphasized to foster continuous improvement. The course will be assessed via an integrated performance assessment
task, requiring candidates to demonstrate their instructional skills.
D886 - Secondary Science Teaching Methods - This course focuses on equipping secondary science educators with the essential knowledge and
skills to effectively teach science through a three-dimensional approach, integrating science and engineering practices, crosscutting concepts, and
disciplinary core ideas. Participants will explore general considerations for science instruction, including inquiry-based learning, hands-on activities,
and assessment strategies. By building on foundational knowledge in Three-Dimensional Science and Engineering, educators will enhance their ability
to engage students in meaningful and authentic scientific learning experiences. This methods course will count towards 7 hours of the 51 total clinical
hours that learners will gain from their SCED methods courses.
D887 - Molecular Biology - Molecular Biology is designed to deepen the understanding of the intricate processes that govern life at the molecular level.
This course explores the structure and function of key molecules involved in DNA replication, transcription, translation, and gene regulation. It delves
into the mechanisms of cellular transport, differentiation, and regulation, examining how cells maintain their internal environment and respond to
external signals. The biochemical pathways essential for metabolism and energy flow, including glycolysis, the citric acid cycle, and oxidative
phosphorylation, are thoroughly covered. This course equips educators with the knowledge and skills to effectively teach molecular biology concepts in
the classroom, emphasizing evidence-based applications and critical thinking.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 306
D888 - Probability and Statistics - Probability and Statistics offers candidates a comprehensive introduction to the fundamental principles of probability
theory and statistical analysis, specifically designed for educators and aspiring statisticians. Beginning with the basics, students will explore essential
concepts such as probability rules, conditional probability, and counting techniques, learning how to apply these in real-world contexts and effectively
communicate them to K-12 students. Students will then learn sampling methods and estimation techniques, equipping them with the knowledge to
gather, analyze, and interpret representative data for statistical analysis. Finally, students will focus on hypothesis testing and statistical inference,
where they will learn to conduct and interpret various tests, including confidence intervals, using statistical software. Through a blend of interactive
simulations, scenario-based challenges, and reflective activities, this course prepares students to apply these statistical tools in educational settings
and beyond, fostering data-driven decision-making and effective teaching practices.
D889 - Trigonometry - Trigonometry delves into the core concepts and applications of trigonometric functions and identities, critical for advanced
mathematics and practical problem-solving. The course starts with foundational topics, including the definition and calculation of sine, cosine, and
tangent ratios, and progresses to solving right triangles and applying trigonometric functions to model real-world periodic phenomena. Students will
explore the unit circle, derive fundamental identities, and solve complex trigonometric equations, including applications of vectors, parametric, and
polar forms. Emphasizing both theoretical understanding and practical application, this course equips students with the skills necessary for higher-level
mathematics courses and various professional fields. No prerequisites are required for this course.
D890 - Calculus I - Calculus I offers a foundational exploration of the essential concepts and applications of calculus, crucial for higher-level
mathematics and various scientific fields. This course begins with an overview of calculating limits and continuity of functions, setting the stage for the
study of derivatives. Then, students will explore applications of derivatives, including applications to objects in motion, optimization, and related rates.
Finally, the course focuses on both definite and indefinite integrals, leading to the mastery of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. This course
prepares students for advanced mathematical studies and provides the groundwork for advanced calculus topics addressed in Calculus II and
Multivariable Calculus.
D891 - Calculus II - Calculus II builds upon foundational calculus concepts to deepen learners' understanding of integration techniques, sequences,
series, and differential equations. The course begins with advanced integration methods, including improper integrals and numerical approximation
techniques, crucial for solving complex real-world problems in fields such as physics and engineering. Students will explore sequences and series,
applying convergence tests and power series expansions to analyze and represent functions accurately. Additionally, the course covers differential
equations, parametric equations, and polar coordinates, providing essential tools for modeling dynamic systems and solving higher-level mathematical
problems. Throughout the course, practical applications in various scientific and engineering disciplines are emphasized, ensuring students develop
strong analytical and problem-solving skills. This course prepares learners for advanced studies in mathematics and related fields and prepares
students for the more complex applications found in Multivariable Calculus.
D892 - Multivariable Calculus - Multivariable Calculus provides an advanced exploration of calculus in multiple dimensions. The course begins with
vector operations in both two and three dimensions, with emphasis on mastering computations and interpretations of magnitudes, directions, and
vector products. Then, it presents partial differentiation and the integration of functions of multiple variables. Finally, the course teaches learners how
to analyze applications of vector fields using line, surface, and volume integrals. This course integrates and extends previous calculus concepts,
providing students with the opportunity to gain a deep understanding of key mathematical theorems while preparing students for specialized courses
and professional applications. Calculus II is a prerequisite for this course.
D893 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra delves into the study of linear systems, matrices, and vector spaces, forming a critical foundation for advanced
mathematics. Students will begin by mastering matrix operations, including solving linear systems and finding determinants and inverses. As they
progress, they will explore vector spaces, linear transformations, and inner product spaces, gaining the skills to work with higher-dimensional systems.
The course also covers advanced topics such as eigenvalues, eigenvectors, diagonalization, and sophisticated techniques like the least squares
method, linear programming, and singular value decomposition. This course is essential for those preparing for Multivariable Calculus and other
advanced mathematical studies.
D894 - Advanced Calculus - Advanced Calculus builds on prior calculus concepts to provide a rigorous and comprehensive exploration of advanced
topics in calculus and analysis. The course begins with an introduction to writing proofs, using definitions and theorems, to analyze the real number
system. The course progresses to using definitions and theorems to analyze the properties of functions, focusing on continuity, differentiability,
integrability, and convergence. Then, it examines the rigorous treatment of advanced vector calculus operations, including the differentiation and
integration of vector functions, and applies these skills to solve real-world problems in physics and engineering. Finally, students will synthesize and
apply advanced integration and topological techniques to solve complex problems. This course solidifies the mathematical foundation needed for
specialized and research-focused applications in mathematics and related fields.
D895 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching is a comprehensive course designed to
equip future educators with the expertise to teach secondary-level geometry. This course delves into core geometric concepts, including geometric
reasoning, transformations, congruence, similarity, and coordinate geometry, while emphasizing the development of critical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Students will engage in dynamic instructional strategies and hands-on learning experiences, using tools like GeoGebra and Desmos to
create interactive lessons that address common misconceptions and support diverse learners. By the end of the course, students will have the
confidence and skills to design, implement, and refine geometry lessons aligned with educational standards and tailored to the needs of a diverse
student population, preparing them to inspire and engage the next generation of mathematicians. This methods course will count towards 5 hours of
the 50 total clinical hours that learners will gain from their SCED methods courses.
D896 - Differential Equations - Differential Equations examines the methods and theory of ordinary differential equations (ODEs), focusing on the
classification and solution of initial- and boundary-value problems. The course advances to the analysis and solution of linear and nonlinear differential
equations, including systems of equations and higher-order differential equations with both constant and variable coefficients. Emphasis is placed on
real-world applications and stability analysis. Students will explore advanced techniques such as matrix exponential, fundamental solution matrices,
phase-space analysis, Laplace transforms, and an introduction to partial differential equations (PDEs). This course builds on matrix and vector
concepts and prepares students for more advanced mathematics courses.
D897 - Advanced Probability and Statistics - Advanced Probability and Statistics provides students with advanced knowledge and skills in probability
theory and statistical analysis. Students will learn to conduct an analysis of variance (ANOVA), regression analysis, and correlation analysis.
Additionally, they will learn to apply R programming language, generate functions, and use modes of stochastic convergence. The course will focus on
applying these concepts to real-world scenarios, decision-making processes, and predictive modeling.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 307
D898 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching offers an in-depth exploration of advanced
algebraic concepts and instructional methodologies tailored for secondary education. The course emphasizes task-based learning, enabling
participants to engage deeply with algebra as an extension of number theory, operations, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore key algebraic
ideas, including equivalence, patterns of change through covariation, and the integration of multiple representations—such as tables, graphs,
equations, and geometric models. The course also examines the historical evolution of algebra and incorporates diverse cultural perspectives. Core
topics include variables, functions (including exponential, logarithmic, polynomial, rational, and quadratic functions), and their applications. This course
is designed to enhance educators' ability to teach complex algebraic concepts effectively and adapt instructional strategies to meet diverse student
needs.
D899 - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching provides a comprehensive exploration of
advanced concepts and methodologies in teaching statistics and probability. The course delves into key topics such as summarizing and representing
data, study design, sampling, testing claims, drawing conclusions, and probability. Emphasizing a deep understanding of conceptual foundations,
including their historical development and perspectives from diverse cultures, the course addresses common misconceptions and students' ways of
thinking. The appropriate use of instructional practices is also highlighted. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D900 - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics is an in-depth exploration of secondary
mathematics content and pedagogy, distinguishing between subject mastery and effective teaching practices. This course will prepare students to
teach and reflect on secondary mathematics lessons that emphasize the use of effective teaching practices, including differentiation, questioning
techniques, and curriculum development. The course also covers strategies for presenting mathematical material at the appropriate level, utilizing
humanizing approaches, co-teaching, Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS), accommodations, and inclusion. This course does not have any
required prerequisites.
D901 - Secondary Mathematics Curriculum - This Secondary Mathematics course is designed to prepare future secondary math educators by focusing
on the application of fundamental math concepts, the development of effective teaching strategies, and the alignment of instruction with state content
standards. This course teaches key areas including application of number systems, algebraic structures, calculus, geometric reasoning, and probability
and statistics in the secondary setting. Additionally, learners will learn to design and evaluate mathematical problems, integrate technology, and
differentiate instruction to meet all students’ needs. Learners will also explore how to research and evaluate curricular resources to ensure they align
with educational goals and standards. By the end of the course, participants will be equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to deliver high-
quality math instruction in secondary education.
D902 - Secondary Mathematics Curriculum - This Secondary Mathematics course is designed to prepare future secondary math educators by focusing
on the application of fundamental math concepts, the development of effective teaching strategies, and the alignment of instruction with state content
standards. This course teaches key areas including application of number systems, algebraic structures, calculus, geometric reasoning, and probability
and statistics in the secondary setting. Additionally, learners will learn to design and evaluate mathematical problems, integrate technology, and
differentiate instruction to meet all students’ needs. Learners will also explore how to research and evaluate curricular resources to ensure they align
with educational goals and standards. By the end of the course, participants will be equipped with the skills and knowledge necessary to deliver high-
quality math instruction in secondary education.
D903 - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Geometry for Secondary Mathematics Teaching is a comprehensive course designed to
equip future educators with the expertise to teach secondary-level geometry. This course delves into core geometric concepts, including geometric
reasoning, transformations, congruence, similarity, and coordinate geometry, while emphasizing the development of critical thinking and problem-
solving skills. Students will engage in dynamic instructional strategies and hands-on learning experiences, using tools like GeoGebra and Desmos to
create interactive lessons that address common misconceptions and support diverse learners. By the end of the course, students will have the
confidence and skills to design, implement, and refine geometry lessons aligned with educational standards and tailored to the needs of a diverse
student population, preparing them to inspire and engage the next generation of mathematicians.
D904 - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Algebra for Secondary Mathematics Teaching offers an in-depth exploration of advanced
algebraic concepts and instructional methodologies tailored for secondary education. The course emphasizes task-based learning, enabling
participants to engage deeply with algebra as an extension of number theory, operations, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore key algebraic
ideas, including equivalence, patterns of change through covariation, and the integration of multiple representations—such as tables, graphs,
equations, and geometric models. The course also examines the historical evolution of algebra and incorporates diverse cultural perspectives. Core
topics include variables, functions (including exponential, logarithmic, polynomial, rational, and quadratic functions), and their applications. This course
is designed to enhance educators' ability to teach complex algebraic concepts effectively and adapt instructional strategies to meet diverse student
needs.
D905 - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching - Statistics for Secondary Mathematics Teaching provides a comprehensive exploration of
advanced concepts and methodologies in teaching statistics and probability. The course delves into key topics such as summarizing and representing
data, study design, sampling, testing claims, drawing conclusions, and probability. Emphasizing a deep understanding of conceptual foundations,
including their historical development and perspectives from diverse cultures, the course addresses common misconceptions and students' ways of
thinking. The appropriate use of instructional practices is also highlighted. There are no prerequisites for this course.
D906 - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics - Methods of Teaching Secondary Mathematics is an in-depth exploration of secondary
mathematics content and pedagogy, distinguishing between subject mastery and effective teaching practices. This course will prepare students to
teach and reflect on secondary mathematics lessons that emphasize the use of effective teaching practices, including differentiation, questioning
techniques, and curriculum development. The course also covers strategies for presenting mathematical material at the appropriate level, utilizing
humanizing approaches, co-teaching, Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS), accommodations, and inclusion. This course does not have any
required prerequisites.
DPT2 - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism - Physics: Electricity and Magnetism addresses principles related to the physics of electricity and
magnetism. Students will study electric and magnetic forces and then apply that knowledge to the study of circuits with resistors and electromagnetic
induction and waves. This course will focus on such topics as electric charge and electric field, electric currents and resistance, magnetism,
electromagnetic induction and Faraday's law, and Maxwell's equation and electromagnetic waves.
E224 - Global and Population Health - Global and Population Health prepares students for the role of the nurse in preserving and promoting health
among diverse populations. Additionally, basic principles of epidemiology, social determinants of health (SDOH), and resource allocation through
value-based care are outlined. The course introduces planning, organization, and delivery of services for diverse populations in community settings,
including illness prevention, disaster preparedness, and environmental health. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites
for this course. This course is eligible for an In Progress grade. Please see the Grading Scale Policy for more information.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 308
E225 - Emerging Professional Practice - Emerging Professional Practice presents a variety of professional nursing specialty areas. Students explore
various practice specialties, including palliative care, genetics and genomics, and others. The course provides pathways to specialized nursing
practice. All prior courses in the sequence for this program serve as prerequisites for this course.
ELO1 - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL - Subject Specific Pedagogy: ELL integrates aspects of pedagogy, assessment, and professionalism in
English Language Learning (ELL). A student develops and assesses aspects of language curriculum development including second language
instruction, methods of second language assessment, and legal policy issues.
FEA1 - Field Experience for ELL - Field Experience for ELL is the field experience component of the English Language Learning program. In this
experience, students are required to complete a minimum of 15 hours of video observations for both elementary and secondary levels. Additionally, a
supervised teaching experience that is face-to-face with English language learners (ELL) according to the minimum time requirements of the student's
state is required. The purpose of this course is to assess the ability of students, including their engagement in field experience activities, ability to
reflect on and then plan standards-based instruction in ELL, and their ability to locate and effectively use resources for teaching ELL to meet the needs
of their individual learners.
LPA1 - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition - Language Production, Theory and Acquisition focuses on describing and understanding
language and the development of language. It includes the study of acquisition theory, error correction strategies, and applied phonology.
LZT2 - Power, Influence and Leadership - Power, Influence, and Leadership focuses on the development of the critical leadership and soft skills
necessary for success in information technology leadership and management. The course focuses specifically on skills such as cultivating effective
leadership communication, building personal influence, enhancing emotional intelligence (soft skills), generating ideas and encouraging idea
generation in others, conflict resolution, and positioning oneself as an influential change agent within different organizational cultures. There are no
prerequisites for this course.
MBT2 - Technological Globalization - Technological Globalization explores information and communication technologies used to meet business needs
in global markets. IT executives must analyze their organization’s technological needs, develop internationally-capable strategic plans, and mitigate the
operational challenges of each of the countries in which the organization does business. This course provides students with the practical knowledge
and understanding of how to plan, evaluate, and successfully integrate effective and efficient technical communication solutions in the global business
market. This course has no prerequisites.
MFT2 - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense - Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Oral Defense: Mathematics (K-6) Portfolio Defense focuses on a formal
presentation. The student will present an overview of their teacher work sample (TWS) portfolio discussing the challenges they faced and how they
determined whether their goals were accomplished. They will explain the process they went through to develop the TWS portfolio and reflect on the
methodologies and outcomes of the strategies discussed in the TWS portfolio. Additionally, they will discuss the strengths and weaknesses of those
strategies and how they can apply what they learned from the TWS portfolio in their professional work environment.
MGT2 - IT Project Management - IT Project Management provides an overview of the Project Management Institute’s project management
methodology. Topics cover various process groups and knowledge areas and application of knowledge in case studies for planning a project that has
not started yet and monitoring/controlling a project that is already underway.
MMT2 - IT Strategic Solutions - IT Strategic Solutions guides students in identifying strategic opportunities and emerging technologies through
research and deciding on a system to support a growing company. Topics will include technology strategy; gap analysis; researching new technology;
strengths, opportunities, weaknesses, and threats; ethics; risk mitigation; data security, communication plans; and globalization.
NMA1 - Professional Role of the ELL Teacher - The Professional Role of the ELL Teacher focuses on issues of professionalism for the English
Language Learning teacher and leader. This includes program development, ethics, engagement in professional organizations, serving as a resource,
and ELL advocacy.
NNA1 - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction - Planning, Implementing, Managing Instruction focuses on a variety of philosophies and grade
levels of English Language Learner (ELL) instruction. It includes the study of ELL listening and speaking, ELL reading and writing, specially designed
academic instruction in English (SDAIE), and specific issues for various grade level instruction.
OOT2 - Mathematics History and Technology - In Math History and Teaching, students will learn about a variety of technological tools for doing
mathematics and develop a broad understanding of the historical development of mathematics. Mathematics is a very human subject that comes from
the macro-level sweep of cultural and societal change as well as the micro-level actions of individuals with personal, professional, and philosophical
motivations. This course will focus on the historical development of mathematics, including contributions of significant figures and diverse cultures.
Students will learn to evaluate and apply technological tools and historical information to create an enriching student-centered mathematical learning
environment.
OPT2 - Mathematics Learning and Teaching - Mathematics Learning and Teaching will help students develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
become a prospective and practicing educator. This course will help students use a variety of instructional strategies to effectively facilitate the learning
of mathematics. It focuses on selecting appropriate resources, using multiple strategies, and instructional planning, with methods based on research
and problem solving. A deep understanding of the knowledge, skills, and disposition of mathematics pedagogy is necessary to become an effective
secondary mathematics educator. There are no prerequisites for this course.
PFIT - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement - Business - IT Management Portfolio Requirement is designed to help the learner complete
the culminating Undergraduate Business Portfolio assessment; it focuses on developing a business portfolio containing a strengths essay, a career
report, a reflection essay, a resume, and exhibits that support one’s strengths in the work place.
QDT2 - Abstract Algebra - Abstract Algebra is the axiomatic and rigorous study of the underlying structure of algebra and arithmetic. It covers the
knowledge and skills necessary to understand, apply, and prove theorems about numbers, groups, rings, and fields. Topics include the well-ordering
principle, equivalence classes, the division algorithm, Euclid's algorithm, prime factorization, greatest common divisor, least common multiple,
congruence, the Chinese remainder theorem, modular arithmetic, rings, integral domains, fields, groups, roots of unity, and homomorphisms. Linear
Algebra is a prerequisite for this course.
QFT1 - Business - IT Management Capstone Project - The Business - IT Management Capstone Project requires students to demonstrate the
integration and synthesis of competencies in all domains required for the degree in Information Technology Management. The student produces a
business plan for a start-up company that is selected and approved by the student and mentor.
QGT1 - Business Management Capstone Written Project - For the Business Management Capstone Written Project students will integrate and
synthesize competencies from across their degree program to demonstrate their ability to participate in and contribute value to their chosen
professional field. A comprehensive business plan is developed for a company that plans to sell a product or service in a local market, national
market, or on the Internet. The business plan includes a market analysis, financial statements and analysis, and specific strategic actions relevant to
the chosen company.
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 309
QHT1 - Business Management Tasks - Business Management Tasks addresses important concepts needed to effectively manage a business. Topics
include understanding the cost-quality relationship, using various types of graphical charts in operations management, managing innovation, and
developing strategies for working with individuals and groups.
QJT2 - Calculus I - Calculus I is the study of rates of change in relation to the slope of a curve and covers the knowledge and skills necessary to use
differential calculus of one variable and appropriate technology to solve basic problems. Topics include graphing functions and finding their domains
and ranges; limits, continuity, differentiability, visual, analytical, and conceptual approaches to the definition of the derivative; the power, chain, and
sum rules applied to polynomial and exponential functions, position and velocity; and L'Hopital's Rule. Candidates should have completed a course in
Pre-Calculus before engaging in this course.
QTT2 - Finite Mathematics - Finite Mathematics covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply discrete mathematics and properties of number
systems to model and solve real-life problems. Topics include sets and operations; prime and composite numbers; GCD and LCM; order of operations;
ordering numbers; mathematical systems including modular arithmetic, arithmetic and geometric sequences, ratio and proportion, subsets of real
numbers, logic and truth tables, graphs, and trees and networks. There are no prerequisites for this course.
RKT2 - Linear Algebra - Linear Algebra is the study of the algebra of curve-free functions extended into three-or-higher-dimensional space. It covers
the knowledge and skills necessary to apply vectors, matrices, matrix theorems, and linear transformations and to use appropriate technology to model
and solve real-life problems. It also covers properties of and proofs about vector spaces. Topics include linear equations and their matrix-vector
representation Ax=b, row reduction, linear transformations and their matrix representations (shear, dilation, rotation, reflection), matrix operations,
matrix inverses and invertible matrix characterizations, computing determinants, relating determinants to area and volume, and axiomatic and intuitive
definitions of vector spaces and subspaces and how to prove theorems about them. College Geometry and Calculus II are prerequisites for this course.
RNT2 - General Physics - This course provides a broad overview of the principles of mechanics, thermodynamics, wave motion, modern physics, and
electricity and magnetism and invites students to apply them by solving problems, performing labs, and reflecting on concepts and ideas.
RXT2 - Precalculus and Calculus - Precalculus and Calculus provides instruction in precalculus and calculus and applies them to examples found in
both mathematics and science. Topics in precalculus include principles of trigonometry, mathematical modeling, and logarithmic, exponential,
polynomial, and rational functions. Topics in calculus include conceptual knowledge of limit, continuity, differentiability, and integration.
SLO1 - Theories of Second Language Acquisition and Grammar - Theories of Second Language Learning Acquisition and Grammar covers content
material in applied linguistics, including morphology, syntax, semantics, and grammar. Students will explore the role of dialect in the classroom, the
connections between language and culture, and the theories of first and second language acquisition.
TOC2 - Probability and Statistics I - Probability and Statistics I covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply basic probability, descriptive
statistics, and statistical reasoning and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides an introduction to the science
of collecting, processing, analyzing, and interpreting data, including representations, constructions, and interpretation of graphical displays (e.g., box
plots, histograms, cumulative frequency plots, scatter plots). Topics include creating and interpreting numerical summaries and visual displays of data;
regression lines and correlation; evaluating sampling methods and their effect on possible conclusions; designing observational studies, controlled
experiments, and surveys; and determining probabilities using simulations, diagrams, and probability rules. College Algebra is a prerequisite to this
course.
TQC2 - Probability and Statistics II - Probability and Statistics II covers the knowledge and skills necessary to apply random variables, sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing, and to use appropriate technology to model and solve real-life problems. It provides tools for the
science of analyzing and interpreting data and includes statistical variability and its sources and the role of randomness in statistical inference. Topics
include discrete and continuous random variables; expected values; the Central Limit Theorem; the identification of unusual samples; population
parameters; point estimates; confidence intervals; influences on accuracy and precision; hypothesis testing; and statistical tests (z mean, z proportion,
one sample t, paired t, independent t, ANOVA, chi-squared, and significance of correlation). Calculus II and Probability and Statistics I are
prerequisites for this course.
VZT1 - Marketing Applications - Marketing Applications allows students to apply their knowledge of core marketing principles by creating a
comprehensive marketing plan. The plan will apply knowledge of the marketing planning process, market analysis, and the marketing mix (product,
place, promotion, and price).
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 310
Instructor Directory
General Education
Albrecht, Brent; Doctorate Degree, University of California, Santa Barbara
Alcazar, Victoria; PhD, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Allred, Clayton; Master's Degree, University of Oklahoma
Altheimer-Bienemy, Keelia; Doctorate Degree, University of Southern Mississippi
Anderson, Marc; Doctorate Degree, University of Houston
Anger, Carly; PhD, Marquette University
Bakhtary, Elham; Doctorate Degree, George Washington University
Ballone, Frank; PhD, Ohio University
Barford, Mary; PhD, Purdue University
Barnes, Daniel; PhD, Mississippi State University
Barnes, Lori; PhD, West Virginia University
Baty, Amanda; PhD, Texas Tech University
Bearry, Brian; PhD, University of North Texas
Beedle, Thanh; Doctorate Degree, Washington State University
Bendall, Gareth; PhD, University of Kentucky
Bennett, Sam; Master's Degree, George Mason University
Benson, Bryan; PhD, Boston College
Bilbrey, Joshua; PhD, Texas State University
Biroschak, Bart; Specialist Degree, University of Cincinnati
Bissler, Mark; PhD, Kent State University
Black, Hilda; PhD, Louisiana Tech University
Borden, Anne; PhD, Emory University
Bray, Logan; Master's Degree, University of the Cumberlands
Brewer, Craig; PhD, University of Notre Dame
Brown, Carrie; PhD, Saint Louis University
Browning, Ellen; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Bruce, Amanda; Doctorate Degree, Stony Brook University
Buckley, Brian; PhD, Loyola University Chicago
Burch, Tanya; PhD, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill
Burrichter, Vicki; DMA, University of Northern Colorado
Byrnes, Sean; PhD, Emory University
Campbell, Elizabeth; Doctorate Degree, University of Washington
Carrier, Rebecca; PhD, University of Illinois
Cathell, Alicia; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Cearfoss, Jenny; MS, Murray State University
Chakraborty, Suparna; PhD, Purdue University
Chittick, Sharla; PhD, University of Stirling
Cools, Jo; Doctorate Degree, University of Tennessee
Corbeil, Marc; Master's Degree, Concordia University
Corcoran, Kellye; Doctorate Degree, Auburn University
Corum, John; Doctorate Degree, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Cowan, Christy; PhD, University of South Carolina
Crawford, Nathan; PhD, University of Tennessee
Crim, Jessica; Master's Degree, Rowan University
Crooks, Kathleen; PhD, University of Akron
Crookston, Andrew; PhD, Washington State University
Cutler, Shane; PhD, Duke University
Dadd, Shannon; PhD, Auburn University
DeLair, Barbra; Master's Degree, Arizona State University
Dempster, Wesley; PhD, Bowling Green State University
Dillon, Jeanette; PhD, Bowling Green State University
Dodge, Joshua; MA, University of Central Florida
Dorn, Amanda; Doctorate Degree, Ohio University
Dorre, Gina; PhD, Tulane University
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 311
Doty, Johanna; Master's Degree, Oregon State University
Douglas, Katherine; PhD, University of California San Diego
Doyle, Michael; PhD, Kent State University
Dungar, Michael; MA, Boston College
Easter, Dustin; MS, DePaul University
Edmunds, Jeffrey; PhD, University of Arizona
Erdmann, Cassie; Master's Degree, University of Minnesota Duluth
Escalante, Elizabeth; MA, University of Houston
Eskridge, Katie; Doctorate Degree, Louisiana State University
Evenson Newhouse, Ranae; PhD, Vanderbilt University
Everett, Amy; PhD, University of Alabama
Fehnel, Bradley; MS, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Fleming, Eric; Master's Degree, Oregon State University
Fosner, Carmen; Doctorate Degree, Temple University
Foss, Chris; PhD, University of Colorado
Francis, Katherine; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Franco, Heidi; PhD, University of Utah
Galindez, Dahlia; MA, Western Governors University
Gallegos, Angela; PhD, University of California Davis
Geppi, Denna; Doctorate Degree, Howard University
Geruntho, Jon; Doctorate Degree, Washington State University
Gibson, Tina; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois at Chicago
Gleason, Christine; Doctorate Degree, George Mason University
Gonzalez, Veronica; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas at El Paso
Goodwin, Rachel; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Gravitte, Kristen; PhD, University of Tulsa
Gregory, Anita; PhD, Tiffin University
Gutaskus, Mary; Master's Degree, California State University Fullerton
Haltom, Andrea; EdD, Capella University
Hann, Nichelle; PhD, University of Florida
Harney, Isaiah; PhD, University of Kentucky
Harrington, Nick; PhD, University College Cork
Harris, Steven; PhD, Indiana University Bloomington
Harrison, Sarah; Master's Degree, Western Washington University
Hayes, David; PhD, Walden University
Hayne, Victoria; PhD, University of California, Los Angeles
Hibbard, Brandon; Doctorate Degree, Eastern Kentucky University
Hildebrandt, Jill; PhD, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Hillyer, Aaron; PhD, University of Nebraska
Hoffman, John; PhD, Kent State University
Hommowun, Liz; PhD, Union Institute and University
Horne, Lisa; MA, Brigham Young University
Hurley, Norman; PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Jesse, Odin; PhD, Texas Tech University
Jeune, Megan; Doctorate Degree, Illinois State University
Johnson, Cassandra; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Johnson, Jocelyn; Master's Degree, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Johnson, Sarah; PhD, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Jones, Lee; PhD, Clark Atlanta University
Kalikanda, Jane; PhD, Binghamton University
Kasper, Gwendolyn; MA, Western Governors University
Kim, Mijung; PhD, Ohio State University
King, Jeffrey; Doctorate Degree, University of Northern Colorado
King, Michelle; PhD, University of Northern Colorado
Klumper, Jordan; Master's Degree, University of Minnesota Duluth
Kmetz, Richard; Doctorate Degree, University of Nevada
Knieps, Linda; PhD, Vanderbuilt University
Krisuk, Jennifer; PhD, University of Tulsa
Ku, Yu; PhD, Northcentral University
Landry, Stan; PhD, University of Arizona
Latham, Kary; PhD, University of Tennessee
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 312
Leep, Matthew; PhD, University of Connecticut
Lettau, Lisa; PhD, University of Delaware
Lewis, Dynesse; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri
Licursi, Kimberly; PhD, University at Albany
Lucas, Sarah; Master's Degree, Radford University
Lukin, Kara; PhD, University of Colorado
MacKenzie, Philip; Doctorate Degree, University of South Dakota
Maestri, Melissa; PhD, University of Delaware
Mammen, John; EdD, University of Phoenix
Mandel, Nicole; PhD, Columbia University
Marrone, Stephen; PhD, University of Virginia
Martin Whipple, Ashley; PhD, University at Buffalo
Mays Yahl, Ashley; PhD, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
McCune, Timothy; PhD, Southern Illinois University
McWatters, Mason; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas
Meckes, Makayla; Master's Degree, University of Houston
Meegan, Meagan; PhD, Texas A&M University
Melnikova, Yuliya; PhD, Texas State University - San Marcos
Metzger, Christopher; PhD, University of South Florida
Metzger, Tyler; MA, Minnesota State University Mankato
Meyer, Nicolas; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Mileo, Jesse; MA, Wayne State University
Miller, Don; PhD, Morehouse School of Medicine
Miller, Esther; PhD, Lehigh University
Moore, Bernard; Master's Degree, University of West Georgia
Mosgrove, Sharon; PhD, University of Iowa
Muhovich, Ned; PhD, University of Denver
Mullins, Christopher; PhD, University of Louisville
Murphy, Jill; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Murphy, Ryan; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri
Nader, Martin; PhD, University of Nebraska
Neher, Tracy; PhD, Michigan Technological University
Nestor, Sarah; Doctorate Degree, Marquette University
Nicley, Erinn; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois
Overmyer, Gerald; PhD, Colorado State University
Palmer, Michael; PhD, Texas Tech University
Parker, Chasta; Doctorate Degree, University of South Carolina-Columbia
Parker, Debra; PhD, Illinois State University
Parrish, Anca; PhD, University of Memphis
Parton, Sabrena; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Pattman, Candace; Doctorate Degree, Concordia University
Potter, Christine; PhD, University of Iowa
Price, Stacy; PhD, Capella University
Przygrodzki, Robert; PhD, Northern Illinois University
Quintela, Melissa; PhD, Indiana University
Redkey, Elizabeth; PhD, University at Albany, State University of New York
Reece, Austin; PhD, Dublin City University
Remington, Theodore; PhD, University of Iowa
Reno, Anita; PhD, University of Texas Medical Branch
Reynolds, Mads; Doctorate Degree, Baylor University
Rhodes, Kristofer; PhD, University of California Irvine
Richardson, Curtis; PhD, Northern Illinois University
Richeson, Jennifer; PhD, Michigan State University
Richmond, Jennifer; PhD, Duquesne University
Ridge, Matthew; Master's Degree, Portland State University
Roberts, Jennifer; EdD, Walden University
Robinson, Scott; DMin, Drew University
Rosenblatt, Heather; PhD, Ohio State University
Ross, Brittany; EdD, Regent University
Ross, Kay; Doctorate Degree, Ohio University
Rupert, Nina; PhD, University of Idaho
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 313
Sanchez, Melvin; PhD, University of California Irvine
Sandlin, Scott; PhD, Texas Tech University
Santoro, Lauren; PhD, West Virginia University
Sautel, Jesse; Doctorate Degree, University of Tennessee
Sayre Baptista, Amy; MFA, University of Illinois, Urbana
Schlaerth, Jeffrey; Master's Degree, Kent State University
Schweitzer, Andrea; PhD, University of Wisconsin
Scotece, Shannon; PhD, State University of New York at Albany
Scott, Jessica; PhD, Brigham Young University
Shahi, Kimberly; PhD, University of Texas Arlington
Simmons, Nathaniel; PhD, Ohio University
Simms, Edward; EdS, Alabama State University
Smith, Michael; PhD, Institute for Doctoral Studies in the Visual Arts
Solis, Ramon; Master's Degree, California State University San Marcos
Sperry, Amanda; PhD, Georgia State University
Spinazola, Lisa; PhD, University of South Florida
Starr, Neil; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Steele, Bridget; Doctorate Degree, University of Central Florida
Storm, Anna; PhD, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Storm, Buddy; Doctorate Degree, Marquette University
Strong, Nicole; PhD, Clark Atlanta University
Sviderskaya, Ilona; PhD, University of Iowa
Swisher, Colin; Master's Degree, Bowling Green State University
Tarun, Alice; Doctorate Degree, University of California
Taylor, Laura; Master's Degree, University of North Carolina Wilmington
Teters, Kristopher; PhD, University of Alabama
Thompson, Laila; Doctorate Degree, North Carolina State University
Thomsen, Kyle; PhD, Loyola University Chicago
Timmer, Kristin; PhD, University of Tennessee
Tolin Schultz, Alex; PhD, Stony Brook University
Trimble, Jill; Master's Degree, Montana State University
Tronstad, LaRae; PhD, University of Texas at Austin
Tucker, Diana; PhD, Southern Illinois University Carbondale
Turner, Brandon; PhD, The Catholic University of America
Vasquez, Lauren; PhD, Mississippi State University
Velarde, Annette; PhD, Saybrook University
Vida, Anna; MFA, Arizona State University
Walker, Hope; MA, Courtauld Institute of Art
Wellinghoff, Lisa; PhD, University of Tulsa
Wilkinson, Shaunna; Doctorate Degree, Marquette University
Witt, Amanda; Doctorate Degree, Marshall University
Wood, Alana; Doctorate Degree, Purdue University
Wood, Lisa; Doctorate Degree, University of Sunderland
Yunker, Mathew; PhD, University of California, Irvine
Zivkovic, Vladimir; PhD, University of North Dakota
School of Business
Adair, Rodger; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Adler, Kathleen; PhD, Southern Methodist University
Alafita, Theresa; PhD, George Washington University
Alward, Thomas; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Ammons, David; PhD, NorthCentral University
Anderson, Rebekah; DBA, Capella University
Arenz, Austin; DM, Colorado Technical University
Argiento, Steven; JD, Pace University School of Law
Atherton, Jillian; Doctorate Degree, University of Cincinnati
Baksh, Andre; PhD, University of Utah
Bankston, Tracy; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Baqai, Haroon; Doctorate Degree, University of Maryland University College
Baraghoshi, Behroz; PhD, University of Utah
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 314
Barton, Robert; EdS, Utah State University
Beckles, Lloyd; PhD, University of Central Florida
Bellflower, Lauren; PhD, University of the Cumberlands
Boonyeun, Dee; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Borch, Casey; PhD, University of Connecticut
Borg, Andrew; DBA, Walden University
Boudalia, Mohamed; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Bowler, John; Doctorate Degree, Franklin University
Brady, Mark; MBA, Westminster College
Brock, Suzanne; DBA, Northcentral University
Brooks, Kimberly; Doctorate Degree, Barry University
Brown, Maya; MBA, Clark Atlanta University
Burress, Landrus; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas
Carr, Michael; JD, St. John's University
Cassell, Kenneth; MBA, San Jose State University
Chu, Kaihsi; Doctorate Degree, University of Washington
Clay-Long, Ashley; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Conklin, Laurie; MBA, Fordham University
Connor, Martin; JD, University of North Dakota
Corbin, Kim; Master's Degree, DeVry University
Cordier, Jayden; PhD, Northcentral University
Cousar, Regina; EdD, Northeastern University
Creer, Nate; Doctorate Degree, Colorado Technical University
Crockett, Bobra; EdD, Argosy University
Cureton, Sara; Doctorate Degree, Fielding Graduate University
Daigle, Jamie; Doctorate Degree, University of Liverpool
Daniels, Meisha; Doctorate Degree, Trevecca Nazarene University
Davis, Mary Jo; EdD, Central Michigan University
Denham, Christine; MBA, University of Tulsa
DePinto, Ross; PhD, Capella University
Desjardin, Alaina; Master's Degree, New Jersey City University
Dickinson, Christine; MM, Purdue University
Dillard, Clint; Master's Degree, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Doren, Andrew; DM, University of Maryland University College
Duran, Anthony; MBA, Northcentral University
Elias, Nilsa; PhD, Capella University
Ennis, Erica; JD, Quinnipiac University School of Law
Etter, Roger; PhD, Ohio State University
Fanning, Erica; MA, Ashford University
Fiano, Jason; MBA, New York Institute of Technology
Fields, Sherri; PhD, Northcentral University
Flake, Darin; Master's Degree, Arizona State University
Foster, Stephen; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Fowler, Matthew; PhD, Capella University
Franklin, Vincent; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Gallo, Merry; DBA, Argosy University
Ganvir, Mitali; Master's Degree, University of Michigan
Garcia, Carlos; Doctorate Degree, Minnesota School of Business
Garland, Jennifer; DBA, Keiser University
Garrido, Laura; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Gates, Debra; MSA, Central Michigan University
Gatlin, Jacob; Doctorate Degree, Kennesaw State University
Gilyot, Bianca; DBA, Columbia Southern University
Giscombe, Hilbert; DBA, Argosy University
Glaspie-Ellis, Faith; PhD, Capella University
Goegan, Brian; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois at Chicago
Goggins, Trunnis; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Goodling, Katie; Master's Degree, West Virginia University
Goolsby, Pazanta; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Greshowak, Anna; Master's Degree, College of Saint Scholastica
Guimond, Katie; Master's Degree, Southern New Hampshire University
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 315
Hall, Thomas; Master's Degree, University of Texas Arlington
Harding, Steve; MBA, Iona College
Harrison, Priscilla; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Hartig, Chris; EdD, Northcentral University
Hartzog, Jerry; PhD, University of Alabama
Havel, Milan; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Havins, Merwin; EdD, Northern Arizona University
Heinzman, Robert; DM, Colorado Technical University
Henriksen, Janet; PhD, The Chicago School of Professional Psychology
Hon, Charles; PhD, Capella University
Hope, Ashley; Doctorate Degree, George Fox University
Hoskins, Melody; MBA, Texas Tech University
Hudson, Brandi; JD, Regent University
Hudson, W. Chris; EdD, University of Phoenix
Iannucci, Brian; PhD, Northcentral University
Irwin, Germaine; MS University of Maryland Baltimore County
Jackson, Nina; PhD, Jackson State University
Jenkins, Queena; MS, DeVry University
Jividen, Jim; JD, Ohio Northern University
Johnson, Janice; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Jones, Alan; MBA, Amos Tuck School Dartmouth College
Jones, Carmen; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Jones, Mary; PhD, University of South Carolina
Joseph, Thomas; Doctorate Degree, PhD Capella University
Kale, Mrinalini; PhD, Capella University
Keels, Stephen; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Korb, David; Master's Degree, College of Santa Fe
Kushniroff, Melinda; EdD, Liberty University
Lamer, Maryann; PhD, Oklahoma State University
Leary, Ann; DBA, Capella University
Leary, Maureen; PhD, Northcentral University
Lemmonds, Jody; EdD, Trevecca Nazarene University
Leonard, Dee; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Leschke, John; PhD, University of Virginia
Lynch, Shannon; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Mackin, Ann; Doctorate Degree, Pepperdine University
Magwood-Golston, Jametta; PhD, University of South Carolina
Mandelbaum, Sara; PhD, University of California, Santa Barbara
Mason, Ebony; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
McClary, Arnetta; JD, Marquette University
McCleskey, Jim; PhD, Capella University
McDannell, Carol; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
McDonald, Sandy; Master's Degree, University of Dallas
McEntire, Chelsea; Master's Degree, Southern Utah University
McGovern, Jonathan; JD, Widener University
McKay, Christina; JD, University of Baltimore School of Law
Meacham, Meagan; DBA, Capella University
Melton, Rebecca; PhD, Chicago School of Professional Psychology
Merchant, Sylnovie; Doctorate Degree, University of Arkansas
Meseke, Lori; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Meyer, Elin; JD, Cleveland State University
Miller, Kim; EdD, University of St. Francis
Miller, Lori; LLM, New York University
Miller, Louise; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas
Miller, Tate; PhD, Trident University International
Mitterer, Dennis; PhD, Walden University
Monk, Parrish; EdD, Northern Kentucky University
Moore, Detria; JD, Liberty University School of Law
Morant, LaWanda; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Morgan, Patricia; DM, University of Phoenix
Muradian, Yousif; MS, University of Nevada Las Vegas
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 316
Murphy, Deborah; Doctorate Degree, California Southern University
Neely, Alex; MBA, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Nelms, Linda; PhD, Capella University
Nicolet-Sare, Laura; Doctorate Degree, Indiana Wesleyan University
O'Brien, Joseph; EdD, George Washington University
Okere, Pat; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Owusu, Dwobeng; PhD, Keiser University
Palmer, Terence; DBA, Walden University
Patrick, Robin; Master's Degree, Liberty University
Patton, George; PhD, Walden University
Pavone, Theresa; PhD, Capella University
Pawarski, Richard; PhD, Northcentral University
Phillips, Patti; JD, Stetson University College of Law
Pierce, Vern; Master's Degree, University of Wisconsin
Pineda, Antonio; PhD, Virginia Tech
Posey, Michael; PhD, Chicago School of Professional Psychology
Powell, Walfyette; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Premuroso, Ronald; PhD, Florida Atlantic University
Preusz, Jared; MBA, Western Governors University
Prince, John; Doctorate Degree, Duke University School of Law
Raza, Syed; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Reymore, Marie; PhD, University of Georgia
Reynolds, Noel; PhD, University of South Florida
Roach, Owen; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Roark, Carolyn; Doctorate Degree, Indiana Wesleyan University
Roberts, Amy-Michele; Doctorate Degree, Colorado State University
Roberts, Tracia; MBA/MS, University of Phoenix
Rodgers, Joan; Master's Degree, University of South Florida
Rodney, Luverna; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Roese, Kelly; DNP, University of Cincinnati
Rogers, Katie; MBA, University of Utah
Ross, Derrick; DBA, Nottingham Trent University
Rupe, Robert; PhD, Capella University
Salisbury, JoDee; PhD, Capella University
SanPietro, Frank; PhD, University of Memphis
Scherer, Joel; DBA, Northcentral University
Schor, Michael; Master's Degree, Otterbein University
Sexton, Nathan; Doctorate Degree, University of LaVerne
Shah, Rob; PhD, Northcentral University
Sharpe, Barry; PhD, University of South Carolina
Shepherd, Tracie; PhD, Northcentral University
Skinner, Susan; JD, Tulane University
Slack, Avery; Doctorate Degree, George Washington University
Smairat, Naseem; Master's Degree, Southern New Hampshire University
Smith, Anastasia; PhD, University of South Florida
Smith, Tommie; MBA, Middle Tennessee State University
Snair, Scott; PhD, Seton Hall University
Snipes, Dawna; JD, Western Michigan University
Sommese, Jock; Doctorate Degree, Wilmington University
Spangenburg, Janice; PhD, Regent University
Stigall, Rebecca; DBA, Trident University International
Strickland, Cynthia; PhD, Touro University
Studebaker, Matt; MBA, Western Governors University
Swarthout, Nanette; MBA, Fontbonne University
Tate, Verlanda; JD, Miles Law School
Tennessee, Ashley; DHA, Medical University of South Carolina
Thompson, Christopher; PhD, University of Cambridge
Tiyamiyu, Ray; Master's Degree, Alabama A&M University
Torres, Barbara; DBA, Northcentral University
Townsend, Melanie; PhD, Capella University
Trzeciak, Dennis; Master's Degree, University of Toledo
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 317
Tsebro, Pavlo; PhD, Kent State University
Valentin, Daisy; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
VanPatten, Bryn; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Venkateswar, Sankaran; PhD, University of Georgia
Wade, Keith; DBA, Argosy University
Walker, Robin; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Wall-Carty, Sean; Doctorate Degree, North Central University
Wallrauch, Traci; PhD, Johnson University
Wang, Xiaofei; PhD, University of Kentucky
Warsi, Umair; Master's Degree, Georgia State University
Wells, Cheree; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
White, Lori; Master's Degree, Troy University
White, Zeb; DBA, California Southern University
Wiebell, Julie; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Wilhelm, Sarah; PhD, University of Utah
Williams, Jocelyn; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Williams, Rian; MPA, University of Utah
Williamson, Eiesha; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Wolfe, Kristen; MBA, University of North Florida
Wu, Angel; Master's Degree, Touro University
Zauner, Lara; Doctorate Degree, George Washington University
Zonghetti, Beth; DBA, University of Phoenix
Leavitt School of Health
Abel, Terilyn; Master's Degree, University of Colorado Denver
Alpert, Patricia; Doctorate Degree, Loma Linda University
Anderson, Paula; Doctorate Degree, Franklin University
Armstrong, Steven; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Arrey, Gina; DNP, University of Texas Arlington
Austgen, Donna; MS, University of Indianapolis
Austin, Tekeshia; Doctorate Degree, Virginia University of Lynchburg
Ayers, Savana; Doctorate Degree, Regis College
Ballard, Beverly; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Bartlett, Heather; EdD, Capella University
Basinger, Michael; DNP, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Bechard, Jessica; PhD, East Tennessee State University
Bennett, William; Doctorate Degree, University of Iowa
Benson, Johnett; DNP, Kent State University
Blaine, Stephanie; PhD, Capella University
Blanco, Eluterio; PhD, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Bockheim, Elizabeth; MS, Ball State University
Bond, Loretta; PhD, Rush University
Booker, Sherri; PhD, University of Southern Mississippi
Brown, Sharon; PhD, University of Phoenix
Cain, Lyn; PhD, Grand Canyon University
Calderhead, Scott; PhD, Capella University
Caldwell, Christian; EdD, Trevecca Nazarene University
Carpio, Ron; DNP, Capella University
Chelius, Ruthanne; Doctorate Degree, Widener University
Clark, Julie; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri - Kansas City
Collins, Jessica; Master's Degree, Ohio University
Conley, Anissa; DNP, University of Indianapolis
Cook, Jim; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Cotes, Christen; DNP, Northern Kentucky University
Crall, Erica; PhD, Grand Canyon University
Croson, Elizabeth; PhD, University of Virginia
Cuomo, Stacey; Doctorate Degree, Seton Hall University
Curtis, Natasha; DNP, Grand Canyon University
Dahdal, Kimberly; Doctorate Degree, American Sentinel University
Dampeer-Moore, Jodi; EdD, Delaware State University
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 318
Dantzler, Barbara; PhD, Trident University
Dawson, Stefie; Master's Degree, Kaplan University
Derryberry, JohnMark; MD, University of Illinois at Chicago
Dillard, Brenda; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Dillard, Deborah; PhD, University of Phoenix
Dorin, Michelle; PhD, University of Missouri St. Louis
Drapp, Jen; MSN, University of Central Florida
Edmonds, Chawndel; DNP, Chamberlain University
Elmer, Justine; MS, Kaplan University
Enriquez-Wilson, Jewel; Doctorate Degree, Chamberlain University
Erazo Romero, Guiselly Astrid; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Escobar, Melanie; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Evans, Krystal; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Feather, Caitlin; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Feather, Rebecca; PhD, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis
Ferrygood, Leslie; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Forbes, Amy; PhD, South Dakota Sate University
Freeman Lucht, Amy; Doctorate Degree, A.T. Still University
Gaines, Tenecia; PhD, Northcentral University
Galeski, Rachel; MS, University of Maryland University College
Gardner, Diana; MBA, Western Governors University
Garrett, Ashlee; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Gatzemeier, Kallie; DNP, Graceland University
Gaut, Marcus; DNP, Samford University
Golden, Christina; MS, University of Phoenix
Gordy, Elizabeth; DNP, Chamberlain University
Gottesfeld, Ilene; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Gray, Kimberly; EdD, Liberty University
Gregory, Lindsay; Master's Degree, Eastern Kentucky University
Grey, Samantha; DNP, Post University
Gunn, Linda; PhD, Union Institute and University
Gwyn, Elizabeth; DNP, Gardner-Webb University
Haddad, Tricia; Doctorate Degree, Abilene Christian University
Hadsell, Christine; PhD, University of Kansas
Hall, Cymone; Master's Degree, University of Illinois at Chicago
Hall, Molly; Doctorate Degree, American Sentinel University
Halpin, Michelle; Doctorate Degree, University of Alabama
Hamilton, Cam; PhD, Auburn University
Hanna, Henrietta; PhD, Barry University
Hannon, Wendy; DNP, Chatham University
Haralson, Saralynn; MSN, Westminster College
Harris, Anita; DNP, Chamberlain College of Nursing
Hawkinson, Julie; PhD, South Dakota State University
Hernandez, Ali; PhD, Benedictine University
Hernandez, Amaury; Doctorate Degree, Virginia University of Lynchburg
Hildebolt, Jody; DNP, Grand Canyon University
Hill, Donna; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
Hills, Stephanie; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas at Tyler
Hodges, Kristen; PhD, Keiser University
Hodson, Kristy; EdD, University of Southern California
Hoggle, Jasmine; DNP, University of Alabama
Houle-Gregory, Anne Louise; Doctorate Degree, American Sentinel University
Houser, Erin; Master's Degree, College of St. Scholastica
Howard, Natasha; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Hsu, Tracy; Doctorate Degree, Old Dominion University
Hunter, Erica; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Hussain, Sonia; MS, University of Central Florida
Jacobson, Buz; MBA, Bryan University
Jennings, Ashley; Doctorate Degree, Aspen University
Johnson, Yaz; Doctorate Degree, Oklahoma State University
Johnson-Anderson, Heidi; EdD, University of South Dakota
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 319
Jones, Paul; Doctorate Degree, Regis College
Jones, Tricia; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Judge, Deborah; DNP, University of Southern Indiana
Kamel Said, Shereen; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Kendall, Gail; DNP, University of Kansas
Killingsworth, Ashley; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Kohring, Laurie; DNP, University of Colorado
LaMar, Ruth; DNP, Indiana University
Landess, Amy; Master's Degree, King College
Langer Atkinson, Heidi; PhD, SUNY at Albany
Lasse, Charlaine; MSN, Western Governors University
Lemmerbrock, Kristin; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
Lewandowski, Nadine; PhD, Northcentral University
Linville, Lisa; DNS, Louisiana State University
Logan, Junius; MD, Ohio State University
Loveitt, Regina; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Lujan, Josefina; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas Health Science Center
Lull, Rachel; DNP, American Sentinel University
Mack, Abdul; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Madison, Jessilon; Doctorate Degree, Libery University
Mancuso, Margaret; Doctorate Degree, University of Hartford
Manigold, Roschelle; DNP, Marquette University
Marshall, Janet; PhD, Rush University
Martin, Kelly; PhD, Capella University
Martin, Vicki; PhD, Virginia Tech
Maser, Joy; Master's Degree, Southeastern University
Masterson, Debra; EdD, Liberty University
Mauldin, Tabatha; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Mavegam, Bertille; PhD, University of Nevada Las Vegas
McCombs, Darlene; DNP, University of Alabama
McGinty, Kelsey; Doctorate Degree, University of Maryland
McIntyre, Devon; DNP, Indiana Wesleyan University
McMaster, Jarrod; DNP, Capella University
McVerry, Kristen; MSN, Kaplan University
Miller, Michele; EdD, Valdosta State University
Miller-Monfils, Janet; PhD, Wayne State University
Minter, Kristin; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Montoya, Karen; DNP, University of Cincinnati
Murphy, Kyle; PhD, Rutgers University
Nassar, Aaya; Doctorate Degree, University of Texas
Nierste, Debbie; MEd, Western Governors University
Norris, Ron; Doctorate Degree, Virginia University of Lynchburg
Oberoi, Anandita; PhD, Walden University
O'Malley, Maureen; PhD, University of Arizona
Ondo, Kimberly; PhD, University of Phoenix
Onuorah, Renee; DNP, University of Indianapolis
Patterson, Wendy; PhD, Walden University
Peacock, Kyle; DM, University of Phoenix
Pearce, Margaret; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Perez, Susan; DNP, Chatham University
Peters, Tamara; MS, Walden University
Pilate, Marcy; Doctorate Degree, University of Tennessee Health Science Center
Pinard, Christina; PhD, Walden University
Prenatt, Gregory; DNP, Loyola University New Orleans
Pritchard, Paula; PhD, University of Florida
Randall, Becky; Doctorate Degree, University of South Dakota
Rawson, Rob; PhD, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
Reed, DeJuan; Doctorate Degree, Florida International University
Reiter-Miller, Michelle; Doctorate Degree, California Southern University
Reyes, Terri; DNP, University of St. Francis
Richie-McKinney, Candace; Master's Degree, Chamberlain University
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 320
Riley, Laketa; MSN, Walden University
Rodriguez, Terese; Doctorate Degree, University of Illinois at Chicago
Roe, Patty; PhD, University of Phoenix
Rogers, Carmelle; PhD, Kansas State University
Rogers, Jeanette; DNP, Capella University
Russo, Linda; EdD, University of Hartford
Scarpena, Jen; DHEd, A.T. Still University
Schmitt, Kellie; MS, Drexel University
Selover, Natalie; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Sexton, Dawn; MBA, Western Governors University
Shaw Hoopingarner, Diana; DNP, Regis University
Sheinberg, Jennifer; DNP, Penn State University
Simmons, Laura; PhD, University of Memphis
Sizemore, Mary; MS, Indiana Wesleyan University
Smith, Kendra; MS, Grand Canyon University
Smith, Shawna; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
Springer-Cap, Jessica; Master's Degree, Post University
Stasher-Booker, Bridgette; Doctorate Degree, Jackson State University
Steele, Kamala; DNP, American Sentinel University
Steighner-Ondik, Tammy; PhD, Capella University
Stewart, Michelle; DHA, University of Phoenix
Stubblefield, Angelique; PhD, Case Western Reserve University
Sunderhaus, Patricia; DNP, Chamberlain College of Nursing
Swinton-Jackson, Cynthia; PhD, Capella University
Tarantino, Philip; PhD, LaSalle University
Torres y Torres, Janelle; PhD, University of Iowa
Travis, Gwen; Master's Degree, Gonzaga University
Trenholm, Robert; DNP, University of North Florida
Waltrip, Kimberly; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri - St Louis
Warren, Glenda; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Welch, Colleen; MS, University of Kentucky
White, Kayla; DNP, Samford University
Williams, Camille; Doctorate Degree, University of South Alabama
Williams, Deborah; MS, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Williams-Fultz, Rosie; PhD, William Carey University
Workman, JoEllen; DBA, Wilmington University
Wren, Lauren; Doctorate Degree, Baylor University
Wyszynski, Connie; DNP, Rush University
Yatherajam, Gayatri; PhD, Colorado State University
Zimmerli, Mandy; PhD, Iowa State University
School of Technology
Abdulatif, Amr; PhD, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Abu Matar, Mohammad; PhD, George Mason University
Aitken, Ken; Master's Degree, Stevens Institute of Technology
Al shaikhly, Yassir; Master's Degree, Middle Tennessee State University
Alani, Mayada; Master's Degree, Indiana University
Alberici, Mary; PhD, University of Missouri
Alexander, Chris; Master's Degree, Syracuse University
Al-Husaam, Abdul; PhD, Capella University
Allen, Candice; MS, Capella University
Allison, Zec; Master's Degree, ECPI University
Alston, Jermaine; Master's's Degree, East Carolina University
Aly, Sherin; Doctorate Degree, Virginia Tech
Amoakon, Lythia; Master's Degree, Kennesaw State University
Anderson, Angela; EdD, Walden University
Anderson, Erik; PhD, Old Dominion University
Antonucci, Amy; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Ashe, James; PhD, University of Tennessee
Ashkin, PatJohn; Master's Degree, Florida State University
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 321
Aylesworth, Jason; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Babatunde, Ifeoluwa; MS, Texas Woman's University
Babi, Mamdouh; PhD, Cleveland State University
Bailey, Christine; Master's Degree, Webster University
Barker, Dustin; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Barnum, Erin; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Barrett, Chelsea; Master's Degree, Liberty University
Barron, Peter; Master's Degree, University of Missouri
Bass, Patrick; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Bassett, Kim; Master's Degree, Colorado Technical University
Becirovic, Esmir; Master's Degree, University of the Cumberlands
Berner, Tami; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Bonnewitz, Frank; MS, Purdue University
Bowman, Daycia; MS, Pace University
Bradford, Corley; Master's Degree, University of Maryland
Branch, Bob; PhD, Capella University
Brewer, Harlan; PhD, Utah State University
Bringardner, Alan; Capitol Technology University
Brown, Adrian; Master's Degree, Webster University
Buchan, Wesley; MS, Western Governors University
Burdick, Larry; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Cameron, David; MS, Naval Postgraduate School
Campbell, Elnora; MS, Webster University
Campbell, Wendy; DBA, Northcentral University
Caramancion, Kevin Matthe; PhD, SUNY at Albany
Carter, Betty; ABD, Capella University
Cary, Adam; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Cook, Henry; MS, Clark Atlanta University
Cooper, Katherine; MBA, Bethel University
Copti, Edrye; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Cortez-Littlefield, Nathan; Master's Degree, Cal State University Monterey Bay
Crawford, Demetria; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Cribb, Mark; Master's Degree, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
Crouch, Keanu; MS, University of Texas at San Antonio
Crowder, Mindy; MBA, Texas Woman's University
Curtis, Bob; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Davis, Jeff; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Davis, Lori; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Davis, Shannion; MA, North Carolina A&T State University
Denchy, Mark; MBA, Alvernia University
Dill, Shawn; MS, Western Governors University
Dollins, Scott; Master's Degree, University of Central Florida
Dougherty, Tom; Master's Degree, Villanova University
D'Souza, Jeevan; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Du, Jenny; PhD, Southern Illinois University
DuBois, Ed; PhD, SUNY at Albany
Dunn, Josh; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
DuPree, Yolanda; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Elleh, Festus; PhD, Capella University
Englestad, Dave; Master's Degree, Southwestern College
Eppenger, Chris; MBA, American Intercontinental University
Escalera, John; MS, Georgia Institute of Technology
Esek, Gabriel; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Everton, Michael; Master's Degree, Grand Canyon University
Farmer, Aaron; MS, Western Governors University
Farmer, Jaynee; MA, University of Arkansas Little Rock
Ferdinand, Jeff; MS, Trident University
Ferdinand, Robert; Doctorate Degree, University of Louisiana
Flory, Jan; Doctorate Degree, Virginia Commonwealth University
Gaffney, Tony; MBA, American Intercontinental University
Gebert, David; Master's Degree, University of Utah
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 322
Geiser, Jerry; MBA, Western Governors University
Godwin, Debby; Master's Degree, Florida Institute of Technology
Golett, Sharon; Master's Degree, Louisiana State University
Gonzalez, Jilly; MS, Western Governors University
Gray, Tanisha; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Grover, Kanika; Doctorate Degree, Auburn University
Grullon, Frankie; Doctorate Degree, University of Fairfax
Grumbine, Chris; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Haastrup, Janita; PhD, Capella University
Hallock, Melissa; Master's Degree, Phoenix University
Hartz, Daniel; Master's Degree, Champlain College
Haskell, John; MS, Western Governors University
Hawkins, Scott; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Haynes, Royel; Master's Degree, Florida Atlantic University
Heiner, Jenny; MS, Capitol College
Hollaway, Shed; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Holm, John; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Horton, Kaye; EdD, Northcentral University
House, Terry; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Howell, Duane; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Hughes, Cynthia; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Hurst, Melanie; Master's Degree, Bellevue University
Ibarra, Ernesto; Master's Degree, Colorado Technical University
Ibe, Richmond; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Idahosa, Martins; DBA, Walden University
Jackson, Tyree; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Jamison, John; Texas A&M University Commerce
Jensen, Taylor; PhD, Montana State University
Jing, Bill; Master's Degree, New Jersey Institute of Technology
Johnson, Bruce; MS, University of Washington
Johnson, Debra; Master's Degree, University of Houston
Johnson, Jeremiah; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Kamara, Kesselly; Doctorate Degree, Colorado Technical University
Kandalam, Sunitha; Master's Degree, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
Keigni, Fleury; PhD, Capitol Technology University
Kercher, Paul; MS, University of Missouri
Khatri, Preety; PhD, Shri JJT University
King, Tosin; PhD, University of New Orleans
Kinkead, Mark; Master's Degree, Monmouth University
Kline, Justin; Master's Degree, Arizona State University
Konczynski, Robbie; Doctorate Degree, Florida Institute of Technology
Kovacic, Rick; Master's Degree, California State University - East Bay
Lee, Tawnya; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Leong, Corey; Master's Degree, University of Central Florida
Levy, Cornel; PhD, Capella University
Lewis, Katina; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Ligocki, Judy; Master's Degree, Carroll College
Lingg, Jonathan; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Linnert, Erin; Master's Degree, University of Central Florida
Lord, Jeffrey; Master's Degree, Friends University
Lusby, Jack; Master's Degree, Florida Institute of Technology
Lyubenko, Angelika; Master's Degree, University of Colorado
Marsh, Andrae; Doctorate Degree, University of Southern California
Martin, Greg; DBA, Liberty University
Martinez, Juan; Doctorate Degree, Florida International University
Matyas, Jeff; MBA, Western Governors University
Mccoy, Aurroyo; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
McCracken, Donald; PhD, Northcentral University
McDermott, Hamilton; MS, Western Governors University
McDonald, Dave; MS, Western Governors University
McKellar, Charles; Doctorate Degree, Virginia University of Lynchburg
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 323
McKinney, Michael; Master's Degree, University of Central Florida
McLaughlin, Mike; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
McLeary, Gary; Master's Degree, American Intercontinental University
McMeen, John; Master's Degree, East Tennessee State University
McPheters, Sean; MBA, University of Phoenix
Melton, Lane; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Mendell, Ronald; MS, Capitol College
Merritt, Mic; Master's Degree, SANS Technology Institute
Middleton, Keiona; Doctorate Degree, Robert Morris University
Milham, Thomas; Master's Degree, DeVry University
Minnick, Jessica; Master's Degree, University of South Florida
Mobley, Ashley; MS, Western Governors University
Mohr, Robert; Master's Degree, Baker College
Molstad, Chris; Master's Degree, Florida Institute of Technology
Moniruzzaman, Md; PhD, Claremont Graduate University
Moore, Arthur; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Moore, Mike; Doctorate Degree, University of Alabama
Moore, Ralph; Master's Degree, DeVry University
Morris, Ron; MBA, University of Phoenix
Morrow, Dennis; Doctorate Degree, Walden University
Mower, Jesse; MBA, Western Governors University
Muhammad, Basil; EdD, University of Phoenix
Mukhopadhyay, Debsankar; PhD, University of Calcutta
Neil, Brian; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Nichols, Jim; Master's Degree, Capella University
Olsen, Aaron; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Onwuzuruike, Fortune; Doctorate Degree, Marymount University
Opp, Chris; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Paddock, Charles; PhD, University of Houston
Pantovic, Jovana; Master's Degree, University of Tampa
Paritala, Anji; Master's Degree, Louisiana State University
Patton, Belinda; Doctorate Degree, Auburn University
Pearlman, Alicia; MA, Purdue University
Perez, Manuel; Master's Degree, Colorado Technical University
Peters, Chris; Master's Degree, University of Utah
Peters, Rebecca; PhD, University of Miami
Pham-Smith, Han; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Pinaire, Kenneth; DSc, Dakota State University
Polinceusz, Tom; MBA, St. Cloud State University
Posey, Chris; EdD, Capella University
Provost, Lauren; PhD, University of New Hampshire
Putnam, Steve; Master's Degree, American Intercontinental University
Rabor, Leticia; Master's Degree, University of Advancing Technology
Randolph, Ray; Master's Degree, Central Michigan University
Rivard, Eric; Master's Degree, University of Redlands
Roberts, Andre; Master's Degree, Trident University
Rosen, Nicholas; MS, Western Governors University
Rubey, Sidney; Doctorate Degree, Colorado Technical University
Ruiz, Juan; Master's Degree, Texas Southern University
Rukieh, Kusay; Doctorate Degree, Florida Institute of Technology
Rush, Kai; PhD, Northern Illinois University
Rutledge, Randy; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Sammons, David; Master's Degree, Westminster College
Schaefer, Brett; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Schenk, Maria; Master's Degree, City University of Seattle
Seminario, Fernando; Master's Degree, Strayer University
Sewell, William; PhD, University of Houston
Sharma, Arti; Master's Degree, Boston University
Shelley, Mark; ABD, Liberty University
Sher-DeCusatis, Carolyn; DPS, Pace University
Short, Joel; MBA, Southwestern College
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 324
Sinanovic, John; PhD, Northcentral University
Sistelos, Antonio; PhD, Indiana State University
Smith, Daniel; Doctorate Degree, Arizona State University
Spiller, Jerry; MS, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Stager, John; PhD, Claremont Graduate University
Stauber, Randy; ABD, Capella University
Stoklosa, Jason; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Straw, Eric; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Striedel, Anna; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Stringham, Travis; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Sundararajan, Radha; Master's Degree, University of Arizona
Tatum, Rodney; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Taylor, Michelle; Master's Degree, Purdue University Northwest
Tepe, Cemal; Doctorate Degree, Yildiz Technical University
Thakkar, Chintan; Master's Degree, Southern Methodist University
Thielfoldt, Kristin; Doctorate Degree, Colorado Technical University
Thomas, Elissa; Master's Degree, Arizona State University
Tomeo, Mel; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Torres, Albert; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Troianos, Lucas; Master's Degree, University of Pittsburgh
Tyler, Joe; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Valencia, Daniel; Master's Degree, Our Lady of the Lake University
Valentino, Maura; Master's Degree, Syracuse University
Vaughn, Flex; Master's Degree, Virginia Tech
Wabara, Malcolm; MS, Pace University
Walker, Terry; Doctorate Degree, University of Alabama
Ward, Eugene; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Watt, Michelle; DBA, Walden University
Weston, Robert; MS, Western Governors University
Willbanks, Kayla; MS, Western Governors University
Williams, Michelle; Master's Degree, Stevenson University
Wilson, Myron; MS, Western Governors University
Wolf, Paris; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
York, Bill; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Young, Bruce; Doctorate Degree, University of Fairfax
Youngblood, Christian; PhD, University of the Cumberlands
Zimmerman, Mindy; Master's Degree, University of Illinois Springfield
School of Education
Aafif, Amal; PhD, Drexel University
Allen, Elizabeth; EdD, Argosy University
Allen-Pleasant, Christy; EdD, Grambling State University
Angeloni, Lynette; PhD, Capella University
Aranda, Christina; MA, University of Utah
Artis, Carol; EdD, Gardner Webb University
Aufderhaar, Carolyn; EdD, University of Cincinnati
Ballard, Patricia; EdD, Argosy University
Barmann-Smith, Sarah; EdD, University of Missouri
Barrancotta, Dan; Doctorate Degree, University of New England
Barraza, Ruth; EdD, William Howard Taft University
Baxter, Marissa; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Bell-Davis, TJ; EdD, University of Washington
Bentley; Demi; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Betts, Anastasia; PhD, Regent University
Blanks, Dorothy; PhD, University of Tennessee
Boen, Laurie; PhD, University of Arkansas
Bradley, Antoinette; Doctorate Degree, Central Michigan University
Branan, Daniel; PhD, University of Denver
Brogan, Lynnette; EdD, Teachers College Columbia University
Brooks, Marlaina; EdD, Texas A&M University Commerce
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 325
Bruce, Gabrielle; PhD, Saint Louis University
Bryant-Spann, Bassanya; PhD, Capella University
Bunting, Tia; Doctorate Degree, University of Delaware
Burks, Angelica; Doctorate Degree, University of Memphis
Cannady, Abby; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Carey, Kimberly; PhD, Old Dominion University
Caudill, Kaitlyn; EdD, Liberty University
Celik, Rebecca; PhD, University of California - Irvine
Chapman, Teressa; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Charles, Mario; Doctorate Degree, University of Missouri
Chisholm, Cynthia; EdD, Liberty University
Cipolla, Christopher; PhD, Northwest Nazarene University
Clark, Alicia; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Clark, Shannon; Doctorate Degree, Southwest Baptist University
Comas, Jacqueline; PhD, Indiana University
Cooper, Jennifer; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Crave, Jerad; Doctorate Degree, Western Carolina University
Crawford, Simon; Doctorate Degree, Arizona State University
Czaplewski, John; PhD, University of Minnesota
Davenport, Rebecca; MA, Western Governors University
Davis, Sherry; Doctorate Degree, University of Oklahoma
Day-Borgeson, Caprice; EdD, Lamar University
Dean-Anthony, Chasity; PhD, Capella University
Deckelmann, Miranda; EdD, Northcentral University
Dees, Nancy; PhD, Regent University
Delacruz, Stacy; EdD, Walden University
Devenish-Williams; Samantha; MS, Nova Southeastern University
Doiel, Patrick; EdD, NorthCentral University
Douglas, Deanna; PhD, Wichita State University
Dukes, Debra; EdD, University of Georgia
Durakiewicz, Anna; MS, Maria Curie Sklodowska University
Feng, Ken; MA, City University of New York
Field, Kathleen; PhD, Rutgers University
Flavin, Kathryn; PhD, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Fleming-Wilson, JeLena; Doctorate Degree, Lindenwood University
Fletcher, Tia; Doctorate Degree, University of South Carolina
Francis, David; MA, Western Governors University
Francis, Steve; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Frick, Ed; Doctorate Degree, Drexel University
Gaviola, Kayle; PhD, Walden University
Gayle, Miriam; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Geiselhofer, Melissa; EdD, Walden University
Giddens, Evelyn; PhD, Capella University
Gillman, Brenna; PhD, University of Utah
Gorgin, Ella; PhD, Michigan Technological University
Granger, Deanna; PhD, Saint Louis University
Gray, Jennifer; Doctorate Degree, Samford University
Green, Tiffany; Doctorate Degree, Trevecca Nazarene University
Grover, Susan; Doctorate Degree, University of Idaho
Hairston, Tia; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Hall, Tammy; EdD, Capella University
Harbin, Lesley; EdD, Nova Southeastern University
Harper-Gampp, Tyler; PhD, North Carolina State University
Harris, J. Ken; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Harris, Lorena; EdD, North Central University
Hayes, Heather; EdD, University of Phoenix
Hedman, Shawn; PhD, University of Illinois Chicago
Hempen, Brandy; Doctorate Degree, William Howard Taft Univeristy
Hernen, Toni; EdD, Northcentral University
High, Lance; Doctorate Degree, Lipscomb University
Homsi, Dana; PhD, University of Colorado
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 326
Hudon-Miller, Sarah; PhD, Purdue University
Hughes, Amy; EdD, University of Montana
Humphries, Tara; EdD, University of Florida
Janitzki, Dean; MA, University of Toledo
Jennings, Kim; EdD, Northcentral University
Johnson, Jaquana; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Johnson, Sherri; PhD, Capella University
Jones, Shannon; Doctorate Degree, University of South Carolina
Jones, Tyson; EdD, Baylor University
Katsafanas, Jodi; Doctorate Degree, University of Pittsburgh
Kelley, Matthew; PhD, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Kelly, Gretchen; EdD, Walden University
Kinds, Kadijah; Doctorate Degree, City University of Seattle
Kopsick, Lesley; Doctorate Degree, Barry University
Kruger, Mary; EdD, Northcentral University
Kurtz, Caren; Doctorate Degree, Frostburg State University
Langham, Kim; PhD, Capella University
Lanning, Tamra; EdD, Liberty University
Ledbetter, Jess; Doctorate Degree, Arizona State University
Lieberman, Elyse; Doctorate Degree, Texas A&M University
Lorenzen, Jen; Doctorate Degree, University of Nebraska
Lozano, Alejandro; Doctorate Degree, California Southern University
Ludwig, Martha; Doctorate Degree, University of Buffalo
Luster, Sandricia; EdS, Argosy University
Lynch, Steve; Doctorate Degree, Northwest Nazarene University
Machado, Cindy; EdD, Oklahoma State University
Machuca, Alicia; PhD, University of Texas at Arlington
Malone, Randi; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Marquez, Catalina; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Mathis, Jack; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Matthews, Whitney; Doctorate Degree, Murray State University
McCain, Michelle; EdD, Capella University
McCarver, Patricia; PhD, California Institute of Integral Studies
McConnell, Tamora; Doctorate Degree, William Carey University
McCraney, Michelle; EdD, Nova Southeastern
McElhaney, Christine; EdD, Liberty University
McMillen, Shelley; Doctorate Degree, Northcentral University
Meadows, Julie; EdD, Walden University
Mendes, John; EdD, Argosy University
Mendez, Alysha; EdD, Concordia University Texas
Metlay, Suzanne; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Michaels-Johnson, Robert; Doctorate Degree, Sam Houston State University
Miller, Kimberly; Doctorate Degree, Concordia University - Portland
Miller, Newton; PhD, Capella University
Moore, Delmon; EdD, Argosy University
Moore, Marsha; PhD, Texas Woman's University
Moore-Taylor, Marian; EdD, Argosy University
Morgan, Brandon; Doctorate Degree, Nova Southeastern University
Morgan, Matthew; PhD, Montana State University
Murray, Mary; EdS, Florida Atlantic University
Murray, Robert; PhD, Florida Atlantic University
Neaville, Stacey; PhD, Walden University
Odom, M. Katherine; PhD, University of South Alabama
O'Neill, Chris; Doctorate Degree, Southwest Baptist University
Ospina, Ellie; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Ospina, Juan; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Pac, Rachel; EdD, Walden University
Padgett, Ashton; Doctorate Degree, University of South Carolina
Parry, Kelly; PhD, University of North Texas
Pellerito, Colleen; EdD, University of Florida
PeQueen, Carol; PhD, Keiser University
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 327
Porterfield, Sakema; EdD, Samford University
Powell, Lynell; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Presley, John; EdD, University of Louisiana at Monroe
Probst, Jacqueline; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Rahsaz, Jackie; MA, University of California San Diego
Ramey, Lori; Doctorate Degree, Converse College
Randonis, Jennifer; PhD, Arizona State University
Ratliff, Meredith; PhD, University of Central Florida
Remaly, Kristie; EdD, University of Phoenix
Richardson, Dale; Doctorate Degree, University of Phoenix
Riggio, Robin; Doctorate Degree, Argosy University
Roberts, Cortney; Doctorate Degree, Lynn University
Robidoux, Lee Ann; PhD, Walden University
Robinson, Ami; PhD, Southern Illinois University
Robinson, Bryant; PhD, Hope Bible Institute and Seminary
Roby, Julie; ABD, Capella University
Ruiz, Valeria; EdD, Capella University
Russell, Nancy; PhD, Ohio University
Rzyski, Megan; MA, Western Governors University
Sands, Yvette; Doctorate Degree, University of South Carolina
Sawyer, Ryann; EdD, Argosy University
Schmidt, Stanley; PhD, Brigham Young University
Sepetys, Peggy; EdD, University of Michigan Dearborn
Shackelford, Cindy; EdD, Liberty University
Shell, Darron; PhD, University of the District of Columbia
Shrader, Vincent; PhD, Brigham Young University
Siler, Terrance; Doctorate Degree, Liberty University
Silver, Jennifer; PhD, New York University
Sims, Andrae; Doctorate Degree, Gwynedd Mercy University
Smith, Damesha; Doctorate Degree, North Carolina State University
Smith, Emily; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Smith, Janeal; PhD, Walden University
Spencer, Kristin; PhD, University of Florida
Stanback, Amatullah; Doctorate Degree, University of North Carolina Wilmington
Stobbe, Maria; Doctorate Degree, Maryville University
Story, Colleen; PhD, Capella University
Stredic, LaTonya; EdD, Walden University
Stubblefield, Jessica; PhD, University of Oklahoma
Studebaker, Bethani; EdD, University of Idaho
Swenson, Karl; PhD, Indiana University
Tash, Gina; EdD, Walden University
Taylor, Jabari; Doctorate Degree, University of Arizona Global Campus
Taylor, Rebecca; Doctorate Degree, Grand Canyon University
Thompson, Jennifer; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Thornsberry, Jeffrey; ABD, William Woods University
Tuiloma, Sara; PhD, Brigham Young University
Turner, Carmen; PhD, University of Memphis
Valentin, Melisa; EdD, University of Louisiana Monroe
Valentino, Cristina; EdD, University of North Florida
Vaughn, Monique; EdD, University of Phoenix
Wade, Sharlie; Master's Degree, University of Phoenix
Wages, Michele; Doctorate Degree, Capella University
Wallender, Jennifer; PhD, University of North Dakota
Walter-Sullivan, Earnestyne; PhD, Texas A&M University
Warham, Erin; EdD, Duquesne University
Wattam, Marni; Doctorate Degree, University of Idaho
Wedemeier, Rachel; EdD, Walden University
Weinstein, Gideon; PhD, Indiana University
Westerman, Paula; EdD, Widener University
Wilburn, Teresa; EdD, University of Sarasota
Willey-Rendon, Ruby; PhD, Texas Tech University
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 328
Williamson-Henriques, Kendra; PhD, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Winkelhake, Kelly; EdD, Northeastern University
Wisnosky, Marc; PhD, University of Pittsburgh
Wolfe, Bridgett; Doctorate Degree, University of South Carolina
Wynn, Eric; Doctorate Degree, University of Louisiana Monroe
Yanusheva, Lidiya; EdD, Walden University
WGU Academy
Baldonado, Tiffany; BS, University of Phoenix
Barrera, Christa; MS, University of Texas at San Antonio
Bolding, Marion; MA, Maryland University of Integrative Health
Boyd, Betsy; MA, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Burdick, Amanda; EdD, Southeastern University
Caggiano, Stephanie; MS, College of William and Mary
Campbell, Yvette; Master's Degree, Maryland University of Integrative Health
Clark, Heather; Master's Degree, Strayer University
Clark. Traci; Master's Degree, Ohio State University
Cuthrell, Ellen; MS, Gwynedd Mercy University
Demblewski, Michael; PhD, Nova Southeastern University
Dietze-Hermosa, Paige; Bachelor's Degree, Brigham Young University - Idaho
Dorsey, Amy; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Emerson, Andrea; Bachelor's Degree, University of Arizona
Flynn, Kathryn; Master's Degree, University of Arizona
Frydman, Honey; MEd, Lynn University
Graham, Toi; Master's Degree, University of North Carolina Wilmington
Gregersen, Jason; MS, Michigan Technological University
Hall, Marquez; Doctorate Degree, Georgia Southern University
Hardin, Brad; Doctorate Degree, Jackson State University
Hayes, Sean; MBA, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Hernandez, Vanessa; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Holyfield, William; PhD, Regent University
Hughes, Candace; EdD, University of Phoenix
Hutchinson, LaShone; Master's Degree, Troy University
Hutchinson, Tiffany; PhD, Capella University
Johnson, Jamie; Bachelor's Degree, Arizona State University
Johnston, Kristi; Bachelor's Degree, Augustana College
Kirkman, Matt; MBA, Western Governors University
Lathers, Heather; PhD, Case Western Reserve University
Long, Derrick; Master's Degree, University of Minnesota - Twin Cities
Markelz, Carly; MS, Western Governors University
McCracken, Kay; Bachelor's Degree, Willamette University
McCracken, Missy; JD, Indiana University
McLaughlin, Mark; MA, University of Nebraska at Omaha
Nicole, Cris; Master's Degree, Saybrook University
Norton Miller, Erin; Bachelor's Degree, University of Kentucky
Pearson, Todd; Master's Degree, Columbia Southern University
Perrea, Brenda; Master's Degree, Peru State College
Powell, Jonathan; MS, Life University
Quest, Rachel; MA, Middlebury College
Redd, Sonya; Master's Degree, Western Governors University
Robertson, Brandi; Master's Degree, Northern Arizona University
Smith, LeAnne; Doctorate Degree, University of North Carolina Wilmington
Stave, Kristine; BS, University of Minnesota
Stewart, Melissa; Master's Degree, Regent University
Ton, Katie; Master's Degree, Liberty University
Warner, Connie; Doctorate Degree, Oakland University
Wickline, Jennifer; Master's Degree, Maryland University of Integrative Health
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 329
Certificates - Standard Paths
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 330
Certificate: Accounting Fundamentals
How do companies manage their finances? Accounts payable and receivable, forecasting, budgeting, balance sheets
—these are all processes that keep businesses informed and on track. The professionals who work in accounting are
skilled in data analysis, spreadsheet creation and management, personal and business finance, cash flow, and many
other concepts. For students who aspire to such a career, the courses in this certificate will provide the required
knowledge. In addition, students will earn the Intuit QuickBooks Certified User Online credential. The world of
accounting and finance is ever-changing and evolving. By completing this certificate, students will be prepared to
enter that world and succeed.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 2140 D100A Introduction to Spreadsheets 1 1
ACCT 2220 D196A Principles of Financial & Managerial Accounting 3 1
BUS 2040 D076A Finance Skills for Managers 3 1
ACCT 2313 D102A Financial Accounting 3 1
Mastering Quickbooks 0 1
Total CUs: 10
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 331
Certificate: Business Leadership
Every successful business relies on effective leaders to guide the organization. These professionals know how to set
goals, be role models, and inspire the people they manage. For students ready to gain leadership expertise, this
skills-based certificate program will help provide the know-how that employers are looking for. Students will explore
the basics of collaboration, communication, ethics, and emotion management. Learning about these concepts will
help them prepare for excellence in the business world—and in their lives.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MGMT 3000 C715A Organizational Behavior 3 1
BUS 2010 D072A Fundamentals for Success in Business 3 1
MGMT 2700 D253A Values-Based Leadership 3 1
Total CUs: 9
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 332
Certificate: Digital Marketing and E-Commerce
As technology has evolved, so has the world of marketing. No longer do consumers visit only brick-and-mortar stores,
and no longer do companies rely solely on print advertising. In the 21st century, digital marketing is essential for
business. Every time individuals see a social media ad or a website banner, they are engaging with digital marketing.
But how do companies decide where and when to target consumers? By taking this course, students will discover the
multiple answers to that question. They will explore digital marketing concepts, including data-driven communications,
search engine optimization, social media, email marketing, content strategy, web analytics, and so much more. They
will also learn about attracting and retaining customers. Along the way, they will earn the HubSpot Marketing
Software Certification. With these stills, students will be poised to enter the digital marketing industry and excel in that
profession.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MKTG 5010 D373A Marketing in the Digital Era 3 1
MKTG 6010 D378A Digital Marketing Science 4 1
MKTG 6040 D381A E-Commerce and Marketing Analytics 3 1
Mastering HubSpot 0 1
Total CUs: 10
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 333
Certificate: Supply Chain Fundamentals
Supply chain professionals are motivated by logistics, planning, troubleshooting, and ensuring all the puzzle pieces fit
together. Their expertise is vital to the international supply chain, which keeps materials on track around the world.
The system must be organized and streamlined for manufacturers to distribute what they produce and for customers
to receive what they need. Students who earn this certificate will learn about monitoring incoming and outgoing traffic,
fulfilling shipping orders, and negotiating shipping rates. They will learn how to observe and analyze the entire
process, including transportation and warehousing, and make continuous improvements for efficiency. The courses in
this certificate cover all the major topics of this industry, and the skills students gain will set them up for success.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
BUS 3900 D470A Transportation, Logistics, and Distribution 3 1
BUS 3910 D471A Global Supply Chain Management 3 1
BUS 2740 D464A Managing Operations 3 1
BUS 4900 D472A 21st Century Operations and Supply Chain 3 1
Total CUs: 12
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 334
Certificate: Nursing Leadership
We see them every day. In hospitals, in doctor’s offices, in clinics—all on the frontline of healthcare. Strong nurse
leaders are vital to navigating the ever-evolving atmosphere of the healthcare field. They do more than balance
inventory, monitor schedules, and tend to patient and staff needs. They serve as role models, influencing healthcare
organizations at every level. Nurse leaders inspire their colleagues, setting the tone for a safe and productive
workplace. This certificate introduces future charge nurses and other nurse leaders to the skills they will need to
succeed. These skills include compassionate communication, time management, self-awareness, problem-solving,
conflict resolution, and cultural sensitivity. Students who complete this coursework will be ready to take on more
responsibility and thrive in their nursing careers.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
NURS 3114 D235A Interprofessional Communication & Leadership in Healthcare 2 1
NURS 3600 D218A Intrapersonal Leadership & Professional Growth 3 1
NLE Nursing Leadership Capstone 3 1
Total CUs: 8
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 335
Certificate: Management Skills for Supervisors
This program is specifically designed to meet the needs of supervisors. It offers essential leadership theories
balanced with real-world applications. Students are tasked with activities and assessments that include coaching
and providing feedback, engaging in decision-making under pressure, and utilizing emotional intelligence in conflict
resolution. Students will develop practical, actionable skills that can be applied on the job immediately.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
FL1 Building and Inspiring Teams 3 1
FL2 Effective Communication for Team Leaders 3 1
FL3 Decision Making for Team Leaders 3 1
Total CUs: 9
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 336
Certificate: AI Skills Fundamentals
Artificial intelligence (AI) is everywhere, constantly evolving and transforming our world. This certificate program
provides students with the essential critical skills they need to utilize AI in their professional lives. They learn to
streamline tasks, generate data-driven insights, and foster innovation while also exploring the ethical dimensions of
AI applications. The program’s culminating capstone project encourages students to apply their knowledge to
meaningful, field-specific challenges. By the end of the program, they will have gained the tools and confidence to
get and stay ahead in an AI-enhanced workforce.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
AIRU Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence 2 1
ICSC 2212 D685A Probelm-Solving with Artificial Intelligence 2 1
AIAPP AI Skills Fundamentals Capstone 1 1
Total CUs: 5
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 337
Certificate: Data Analytics Skills
It has often been said that information is power. However, if we do not know how to interpret that information, it will
not be useful. With this certificate, students will gain data analysis skills, which are critical for numerous roles and
career fields. Throughout these six courses, they will explore statistics and probability, which can help them make
thoughtful and smart decisions. They will learn the basics of coding, which can enable them to write for many
different platforms and troubleshoot as needed. They will discover the best ways to use artificial intelligence for
research and problem-solving. They will also learn to work with spreadsheets to create compelling presentations. In
addition, they will build assets for online portfolios.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
MATH 1101 C955A Applied Probability & Statistics 3 1
BUS 2250 D388A Fundamentals of Spreadsheets & Data Presentations 3 1
DTAN 6228 D615A Foundations of Coding 3 1
ICSC 2212 D685A Problem-Solving with Artificial Intelligence 2 1
DCDV Data Visualization 1 1
DCADA Data Analysis with SQL 2 1
Total CUs: 14
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 338
Certificate: Data Engineering Professional
This is the ultimate certificate program for those who want to design and manage the data systems that power global
innovation. It teaches students the fundamentals of modern cloud architectures, the key differences between cloud-
native and traditional data systems, and how to optimize cloud-connected databases. Students explore cloud
computing concepts, examine storage solutions, and dive into critical topics such as cloud security, compliance, and
the legal landscape of data management. They will gain hands-on experience with data processing pipelines,
learning how to extract, transform, and load data efficiently. By the end of this program, they will have the expertise
to build high-performing, secure data systems and drive data-driven innovation.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
DTAN 6220 D607A Cloud Databases 3 1
DTAN 6221 D608A Data Processing 3 1
DTAN 6222 D609A Data Analytics at Scale 3 1
Total CUs: 9
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 339
Certificate: Front-End Web Developer
With this certificate, students will explore the fundamentals of front-end engineering. They will study JavaScript
programming for beginners and learn front-end engineering with React. As they delve into these concepts, they will
begin to see how front-end web development is both an art and a science. Along the way, they will have
opportunities to showcase their strengths and demonstrate new skills.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
CSFE Front-End Engineering: JavaScript and React 9 1
Total CUs: 9
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 340
Certificate: Java Developer
With this certificate, students will explore back-end development skills, enabling them to create websites and
applications that perform effectively and efficiently. They will learn the skills necessary for building web applications
that users can rely on and trust—ones that they will remain loyal to and visit time and again. Students will also
explore Java programming and learn to master algorithms and data structures in Java.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
CSBE Back-End Coding: Java and Job Readiness 9 1
Total CUs: 9
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 341
Certificate: ServiceNow Application Developer
By using a Low Code Application Platform like ServiceNow, students can create user-centered, custom applications
with minimal coding and IT background. This means they can focus on developing the best possible user
experience. When pursuing the ServiceNow Application Developer certificate, students will learn to navigate and
master the ServiceNow platform. They will explore how to use JavaScript to make websites come alive. In addition,
they will learn the fundamentals of front-end web development, allowing them to create a clear and straightforward
user interface.
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 2131 D277A Front-End Web Development 3 1
ITSW 3151 D280A JavaScript Programming 3 1
ServiceNow Application Developer (SNAD) 3 1
Total CUs: 9
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 342
Certificate: Full Stack Engineering
Full stack engineers know how to build an application from the ground up. For students eager to gain such knowledge,
this certificate combines all the courses from the Front End Web Development, Back End Web Development, and
Web Application Deployment and Support certificates. When students complete these three programs, they will be
skilled in creating, deploying, supporting, scaling, and maintaining websites and web applications. This knowledge can
dramatically expand their career opportunities.
Front End Web Development
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITSW 2120 D276A Web Development Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2110 D197A Version Control 1 1
ITSW 2113 D278A Scripting and Programming Foundations 3 1
ITSW 2131 D277A Front-End Web Development 3 1
ITSW 3151 D280A JavaScript Programming 3 1
ITSW 3110 D279A User Interface Design and Development 3 1
Total CUs: 16
Back End Web Development
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 2117 D427A Data Management Applications 4 2
ITSW 3172 D286A Java Fundamentals 3 2
ITSW 3173 D287A Java Frameworks 3 2
ITSW 3175 D288A Back-End Programming 3 2
ITEC 2116 D426A Data Management Foundations 3 2
Total CUs: 16
Web Application Deployment and Support
CCN Course Number Course Description CUs Term
ITEC 3004 D281A Linux Foundations 3 3
ITEC 2119 D282A Cloud Foundations 3 3
ITSW 3170 D411A Scripting and Automation 2 3
ITSW 2226 D284A Software Engineering 4 3
Total CUs: 12
© Western Governors University April 25, 2025 343
